BAGHDAD — Omar Ali al-Dulaimi had always been proud of his first name. It's a strong, Sunni-sounding name that honors a seventh-century caliph and revered figure in Sunni Muslim history. Last week, however, he paid $60 to get a fake ID card and become &quot;Mohammed.&quot; Lately, it's too dangerous to sound Sunni, he says. &quot;It's a form of stolen freedom,&quot; says al-Dulaimi, 34, a mobile phone sales representative who lives in Baghdad with his wife and two young children. &quot;But we need to be cautious. Each day I go to work, my family doesn't know if I'll return.&quot; Iraqis in Baghdad named Omar or Othman — two of the most recognizable names identified with Sunni Islam — are getting fake IDs, changing their names legally in court, even teaching their young children to say more neutral-sounding names if asked, al-Dulaimi says. Some names, such as Ali, Mohammed and Ahmed, are common among both Sunnis and Shiite Muslims. But Omar and Othman are linked mostly with Sunnis. The rush to mask identities underscores the increased sectarian tensions in Iraq since February's bombing of a sacred Shiite mosque in Samarra. The attack led to reprisals by Shiite gunmen and continuing violence between Sunnis and Shiites. Bullet-ridden bodies are regularly found around Baghdad. Some are victims of sectarian killings. Hussam al-Jubouri, a human rights officer with the Sunni Iraqi Islamic Party, says his office has counted 544 Sunnis killed since the bombing Feb. 22. Those numbers could not be independently verified. &quot;Many of them were named Omar, and others were killed because of their Sunni tribal names,&quot; he says. &quot;Every day, there are 10 to 15 Sunnis killed.&quot; Ali al-Obeidi had long been known to clients and friends as &quot;Abu Omar,&quot; or &quot;Father of Omar.&quot; It is common among Iraqis to take the name of one's eldest son in this fashion. But shortly after the shrine attack in Samarra, customers at his money-exchange shop in Baghdad's al-Khadra neighborhood stopped calling him Abu Omar. His 13-year-old son, Omar, was taunted at school for his name, al-Obeidi says. He got scared after reading about Sunnis being targeted for their names, he says. So he took his son to the registry office downtown and had his name legally changed from Omar to the more neutral-sounding Samir. &quot;These problems did not exist before, but they will continue for years,&quot; al-Obeidi says. &quot;I just needed to protect my son from future sectarian threats.&quot; Gen. Ali Ghaleb, deputy interior minister for police affairs, acknowledges that some people are targeted because of their names and says it is not surprising that people would want to conceal their identities. &quot;A human being has the right to protect himself by all means,&quot; he says. &quot;Even our officers don't always carry their police IDs on them to protect themselves.&quot; Omar and Othman represent two of the most revered figures in Sunni history: Omar Bin Al-Khattab and Othman Bin Affan, seventh-century caliphs revered by Sunnis but considered illegitimate by many Shiites. Sunni Arabs represent about 20% of Iraq's 26 million people, but they have long dominated Iraq's ruling class. Shiites, about 60% of the population, were oppressed under Saddam Hussein, particularly after the Gulf War of 1991 when Kurds and Shiites unsuccessfully rose up against the regime. In Baghdad and other parts of Iraq, secular Shiites and Sunnis have lived together for years. Some tribes or extended families have both Sunni and Shiite branches. Al-Dulaimi says he first noticed targeted killings of Sunnis and Shiites last summer, about the time Shiites gained control of the Interior Ministry, which handles internal security. In July, his cousin, also a Sunni, was arrested in a raid in Baghdad's predominantly Sunni Adhamiyah neighborhood and was never seen again, al-Dulaimi says. After the Samarra bombing, the violence intensified. Shortly after the attack, he says, he and a friend were stopped at a police checkpoint in southwestern Baghdad on their way to work and made to show their identity cards. Commenting on their names and neighborhoods, the officers forced them out of their car and searched it for weapons, al-Dulaimi says. Though they had taken that route many times, they had never been searched or questioned, he says. They were released, al-Dulaimi says, but he made up his mind to change his name. Many of his friends are doing the same, he says. He says he doesn't expect improvement with the new government. &quot;They've already planted the seeds of sectarian violence,&quot; he says. &quot;It could get never go back to how it was.&quot; http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/i...r_x.htm?csp=34