In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, and heal the breasts of the Believers (At-Tawba – 14) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, his companions and his family. On Monday 18/ 5/ 2009 at 12:00 pm, after putting trust in Allah and with his support, the Engineering support for the guerrilla fighting wing in the Islamic Army in Iraq detonated an IED on a Hummer belonging to the occupying American enemy, and by Allah's grace it was destroyed completely killing three of them and scattering their body parts that was witnessed on the road, This took place in Tikrit North of Baghdad. Praise and Glory be to Allah. The military leadership. The Islamic Army in Iraq. Jihad and Reform Front. In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, and heal the breasts of the Believers (At-Tawba – 14) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, his companions and his family. On Tuesday 12/ 5/ 2009 at 11:00 am, after putting trust in Allah and with his support, the Engineering support for the guerrilla fighting wing in the Islamic Army in Iraq detonated an IED on a fuel tanker belonging to the occupying American enemy, and by Allah's grace it was disabled injuring the driver, This took place in Ataiwz area North East of Baghdad. Praise and Glory be to Allah. The military leadership. The Islamic Army in Iraq. Jihad and Reform Front. In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, and heal the breasts of the Believers (At-Tawba – 14) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, his companions and his family. On Friday 22/ 5/ 2009 at 6:00 am, after putting trust in Allah and with his support, the combat detachment for the guerrilla fighting wing in the Islamic Army in Iraq Attacked an American Hummer with two RKG3 grenades, and by Allah's grace it was a direct hit that disabled it killing and injuring its crew members, This took place in Bayji North of Baghdad. Praise and Glory be to Allah. The military leadership. The Islamic Army in Iraq. Jihad and Reform Front. In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, and heal the breasts of the Believers (At-Tawba – 14) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, his companions and his family. On Thursday 21/ 5/ 2009 at 3:30 am, after putting trust in Allah and with his support, the rocket launching detachments in the Islamic Army in Iraq launched two Grad rockets against the American base in Baghdad Airport, and by Allah's grace it was a powerful direct hit, This took place near Abu Ghraib, West of Baghdad Praise and Glory be to Allah. The military leadership. The Islamic Army in Iraq. Jihad and Reform Front. In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, and heal the breasts of the Believers (At-Tawba – 14) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, his companions and his family. On Saturday 9/ 5/ 2009 at 12 midnight, after putting trust in Allah and with his support, the rocket launching detachments in the Islamic Army in Iraq launched a Grad rocket against an American base, and by Allah's grace it was a powerful direct hit, This took place in Ataiwz area, North East of Baghdad Praise and Glory be to Allah. The military leadership. The Islamic Army in Iraq. Jihad and Reform Front. In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, and heal the breasts of the Believers (At-Tawba – 14) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, his companions and his family. On Thursday 14/ 5/ 2009 at 3:00 am, after putting trust in Allah and with his support, the rocket launching detachments in the Islamic Army in Iraq launched a Katyusha rocket against the American (Al Hurryah) base, and by Allah's grace it was a direct hit, This took place in Kirkuk, North of Baghdad Praise and Glory be to Allah. The military leadership. The Islamic Army in Iraq. Jihad and Reform Front.