ارسال رسائل مجانية ببلاش من النت كثرت الأقاويل عن مواقع لارسال رسائل مجانيه ع النت اليوم وعن طريق أشهر محركات البحث وجدت برنامج لإرسال 6 رسائل مجانية كل 24 ساعة و بأي إسم تختاره ملحوظه :- البرنامج كامل و مجاني فقط من هذا اللينك الرائع ارسال رسائل مجانية من هنـــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــا http://send-free-sms.downloadxdownload.com/ أتمني الردود ع الموضوع والتعقيب من فضلكم تحياتي ......أخي هل البرنامج آمن
تهنئة بمناسبة العيد بكل اللغات كل عام و أنتم بخير بالعربية Each year, and you are fine بالإنجليزية Chaque année, et vous êtes amende بالفرنسية Jedes Jahr, und Sie sind in Ordnung بالألمانية Ogni anno, e tu sei bella بالإيطالية Cada a?o, y est?n bien بالأسبانية
بارك الله فيكم يا رجال
تسلم إيديكوووووووووووووووووووووووووووووووو
for more good than you think from here http://www.in-facebook.com/facebook-sms-free/ thanks alot for you
System Suite manages more than 100 tests to discover the problems which slow down your computer and corrects them if your computer functions again like new. Certain programs fix a handle of problems of PC, but do not find the problems which afflict your PC. But SystemSuite is the most complete product in its kind. SystemSuite with n' import which can maintain, repair and protect themselves their PC. To identify and eliminate the viruses and software spies. Pirates and intruders, to diagnose and solve the problems of Windows, to recover lost data, to protect from the spam and the viruses from transport, and much, much more! SystemSuite together of complete functionalities and a tune-up click assistants allows you to repair any existing problem and to defend against the threats of safety in real-time. Characteristics: ” One-Click output of l' computer, of the cleaning and the solutions Assisting of safety automatically to maintain, fix and repair your PC ” Tracks of more than 100 tests to discover the problems which slow down your computer and corrects all these ” Speed performances of your PC thanks to the defragmentation, cleaning, fixing and l' optimization of your register Windows ® ” Speed Internet Optimizer ” To optimize your PC for the plays, safety, the multi-media one and the tasks of office ” Administrative of Windows starting ” Followed automatic from health, the performance and the safety of your PC ensuring you are always protected ” Credit card Safety of the transactions ” Two-way Personal Firewall ” Anti-Spam Control ” Fraud and swindle of the type phishing prevention ” Internet Cleanup ” Intelligence Monitor Activates ” Rescue Windows tools ” Secure Slips by Shredder Speed Internet Optimizer - NEW! New tool Internet Speed accelerates the speed of the navigator, download and surfer jusqu' to 80% for Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox. Windows Optimizer - NEW! This new Microsoft Office tool improves the parameters of safety of the applications, the parameters of safety Internet, corrects vulnerabilities of register and cleans the file d' d' makes an attempt; printer. Microsoft Office and of navigator Internet have defects of safety where the pirates can send viruses and software spies grace. SystemSuite fixes the parameters of safety protects you from the attacks. The files which you wish to print can be wedged in the file d' d' makes an attempt; printer. When that often occurs the only means to obtain the file is out starting again your computer. SystemSuite removes the file (S) which is with l' origin of the problem d' impression without having to start again your computer. Memory Optimizer - NEW! SystemSuite optimizes the way in which Windows uses the memory to improve the performances of the system. (No statistics on this point - but we will have in fact. Antivirus and Anti-Spyware Engine Antivirus SystemSuite and anti-spyware tools have Ajouter significant news functionalities of safety for s' to ensure that you are always to protect from the last threats. NEW! Rootkit Detection and Removal NEW! Protection in real-time Shields NEW! Behavior in function d' identification malware PC Diagnoses - IMPROVES SystemSuite diagnosis PC were improved in order to support of tests complete of material d' Vista computers. Temp Cleaners Slips by - BETTER The cleaners of files temp include/understand an option now making it possible to crush in a permanent way the temporary files selected. This improves safety of your PC by protecting you from all the files potentially malicious temp. Activate Intelligence - IMPROVES SystemSuite &quot; Activate Intelligence&quot; engine monitors the statute of hard drive now, l' disk space available, the fragmentation of the hard drive, errors of register, files temporary excess and applications of starting. SystemSuite makes it possible to the users to reduce times of starting of 25%, d' to improve the performances in read-write of 20% and prevents the loss of data by identifying the problems of hard drive before qu' they do not occur. Shredder file Tool - IMPROVES SystemSuite File Shredder tool now comprises two additional options for the crushing of sensitive files in full safety and to reinforce your protection against the flight d' identity. The users can choose 1,3,7 or 35 options to pass. With the multiplication of the options d' wiping, the users can s' to ensure that their significant data are removed in full safety even starting from the most aggressive software of recovery of files. Protect new DataVault Your confidential data SystemSuite stores and crypt your personal informations significant and financial, password and of numbers. SystemSuite makes it possible to the users in full safety to stick the data directly in Internet Explorer &amp; Firefox navigators Web to prevent the spywares to steal your personal informations. With SystemSuite you can connect yourselves on banking Web sites and accounts e-mail or make an online shopping without having with striking your personal informations. Spyware to use a keylogger to capture and record the sequences of keys which you enter on your keyboard. They can steal your identity, of knowing your passwords Web site, record and then use your credit card to make purchases illegally. SystemSuite' S Data Vault ensures the users n' will not have to type all the personal data or financial in Internet Explorer or Firefox. That reduces considerably the risk of your passwords site, of information of credit card or social security d' to be stolen by spywares. To find and quantify and store: The credit card Names d' user Passwords Social security numbers And more still! Supports: Internet Explorer 6 and 7 Firefox version 2 &amp; 3. free download http://www.learning-cds.com/full-learning-cd/page/64/ .................................................. .........................................
واليكم تحميل جميع السيديهات http://www.learning-cds.com/full-learning-cd/
