تم تصغير هذه الصورة. إضغط هنا لرؤية الصورة كاملة. الحجم الأصلي للصورة هو 964 * 571. Casualty: A British soldier injured in an IED explosion is treated at the Camp Bastion field hospital Critical: A Briton injured in a firefight with insurgents is one of the casualties at the field hospital British Army Field Hospital at Camp Bastion in a location in the desert in the Helmand Province in Southern Afghanistan Photo: GETTY Camp Bastion Field Hospital and Medical Treatment Facility MTF Helmand Territory Southern Afghanistan British medics wheel a casualty to the operating theatre at a joint forces field hospital at Camp Bastion in Afghanistan. Photo: REUTERS Camp Bastion Hospital Works Day and Night to Save Lives A medic checks an x-ray image of a gunshot wound victim at the field hospital at Camp Bastion, Afghanistan Lieutenant Mark Evison, 26, from the 1st Battalion, The Welsh Guards coffin as it was carried into the Guards Chapel, Birdcage Walk, London by some of the men from his unit. On 9 May 2009 Soldiers rush an injured person to the British Army Field Hospital at Camp Bastion in a location in the desert in the Helmand Province Photo: GETTY British Army Neuron surgeon Lt. Col. Peter Stanworth performs brain surgery on Afghan National Army (ANA) Bocha, due to a shrapnel head injury, in the operating theatre at the British Army Field Hospital at Camp Bastion, located in the desert in Helmand Province, Southern Afghanistan. تم تصغير هذه الصورة. إضغط هنا لرؤية الصورة كاملة. الحجم الأصلي للصورة هو 800 * 594. British surgeons and nurses work last year on a casualty with gunshot wounds in Helmand province, Afghanistan, at the joint forces field hospital in Camp Bastion. (Reuters/Steve Lewis) تم تصغير هذه الصورة. إضغط هنا لرؤية الصورة كاملة. الحجم الأصلي للصورة هو 800 * 594. Afghanistan – An injured soldier is triaged at the British Army Field Hospital at Camp Bastion, in southern Afghanistan's Helmand province. Television programme following the work of Doctors and Nurses at War from 203 Field Hospital Unit in Camp Bastion Field Hospital and Medical Treatment Facility MTF Helmand Territory Southern Afghanistan British medics examine a bullet wound to one of four casualties injured by gunshot wounds, at the joint forces field hospital in Camp Bastion, during an operation in Helmund Province, Afghanistan فيديو http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMDCv..._embedded#t=48 منقول من الاخ امارتي تَمَّ تحريرُ الصُور