http://www.dr.dk/Nyheder/Indland/2006/01/30/153925.htm Naser Khader (Rad. V (a Danish political party)) is himself a secular viewed, moderate Muslim and in his opinion it is time for the hard tone in the Muhammad-drawing-case to soften up. Moderate Muslims are in the drawing-conflict 30. January 2006 An announcement from secular viewed, moderate Muslims are going to change the depressed relationship between the Arab world and Denmark. It is the radical parliament member Naser Khader, who has taken initiative to form a network, which shall prepare an explanation to the Arabic part of the world. 120-130 Muslims have joined the network, Khader informs. Naser Khader received Sunday a message with following words: “Send this message to everybody you know” “Since Muslims want violate our freedom of expression by boycotting our products, then lad us boycott all their shops in Denmark. Send this message to all those who you know”. This made him take the initiative to gather a group of moderate Muslims. The present rhetoric in the conflict only makes the contradiction in the society further. -Their tone is very aggressive against prominent Muslims, but the Danish boycott of Muslim’s shops and kiosks are unreasonable, says he about the people behind this concerned message. At the same time he is encouraging the imams from Islamisk Trossamfund to go forth in settle the conflict. No to apologies! - Instead they escalate the conflict with rhetoric in the Arab medias. They have involved the new book about the prophet Muhammad by the author Kaare Bluitgen, which where the reason why, Jyllands-Posten pressed this 12 drawings of Muhammad, he points out. - One should encourage them to relax and not make the Danish conflict, international; it must be solved in Denmark… Yes to dialog, no to apologise. There is nothing to apologise for. It would be falling on knees for the fundamentalists. Says Naser Khader The networks initiative taker will express principles, which Muslims must accept to join. This include resistance of sharia as law and its punish system like sentence to death. Religion and state must be separate and all religions must be recognised, likewise the members are against chauvinism. Some Muslims criticise the Muhammad-drawings, but support the burning of the Danish flag, he explain. Translated by Umm Salem, Denmark In the name of Allah. I want to explain a little bit about Naser Khader: He is Palestinian but is now a Danish citizen. He is in the Danish parliament he is trying to make a new modern Islam. He believes in the democracy and manmade laws, instead of applying what God has given us. He has written a book on Islam or the way he thinks Islam should be, this book unfortunately is one of the best-known books on Islam in Denmark and is being used as material to educate on Islam many places in this country. He believes that Islam has to be changed into a new and modern Islam, fitting this present times and countries way of life. So if he comes to talk in the name of the Muslims in Denmark don’t believe him and know that it’s not the truth, but that he talks in his and his parties’ name and that his way isn’t the way and view that many other Danish Muslims have. بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم الحمد لله وحده ثم الصلاة والسلام على من لا نبي بعدة ... اما بعد .. هذه أخوت من الدنمرك دنمركية الأصل تستجير بكم يا مسلمين من حر ما بها من هذا الزنديق فهل من مناصر يعينها على رد شر هذا الخبيث جزاكم الله خير ... فهذا الزنديق يحاول ان يدفع عن الكفار في وقتٍ لم ينصر المسلمات في هذه الدولة المحارية لله ورسولة فما عساكم فاعلين جزاكم الله خير ....