Human Resources Management WALDENBURG INTERNATIONAL COLLEGE DESCRIPTION PROGRAMME The Human Resource Management and Development Program me has been designed for HR executives and senior managers with the aim of obtaining the best from their organization’s human resources. The program me blends a number of areas of academic knowledge in organizational analysis, HR and knowledge management. Additionally powerful tools are presented for analyzing and implementing organizational change. The program me content provides comprehensive coverage of the major HR responsibilities, addressing strategic and operational aspects. The course involves both practical and theoretical considerations in the professional development in the field of HR. Another benefit of the program me is the opportunity it affords to meet and exchange ideas with colleagues from all over the globe. Through intensive discussions with like-minded classmates, case studies and workshops directed by expert faculty members, participants will also learn how to implement the latest HR developments in the most beneficial way to their specific organization or institution. PARTICIPANTS PROGRAMME This seminar is aimed at individuals who wish to extend their understanding of HRM processes and their influence on organizational and individual effectiveness. The 10 days in-depth training program me takes a strategic approach towards developing and managing Human Resources within the public and private sectors. Thus, this program me is intended for all senior HR management wishing to deepen their understanding in all areas of HR. OBJECTIVES The goal of the HR management seminar is to prepare human resource professionals to deal with the complexities and challenges of managing today's workforce. Participants will return to their countries equipped with the latest practical tools of HR together with having enhanced their capacity to: Understand the benefits of increased organizational and managerial effectiveness Motivate their employees; thus advancing the whole organization Determine and manage the strategic role of the HR function within the organization Use problem solving, analytical and interpersonal skills that can be transferred, with confidence, to the workplace Identify, analyze and respond to social, economic and legal factors influencing the operations of their employing organizations and its HRM policies Bring out an appreciation of the need for innovative thinking Recognize how future trends in linking strategy and HR management may impact your organization Identify HR problem areas and provide alternative solutions that facilitate management processes CURRICULUM Strategic HR Management Innovation and Organizational Change Globalization and its impact on the Human Resource Specific Topics within Human Resources: - Recruitment and selection - Interview Techniques - Employee Development and Training - Benefits &amp; Compensation Conflict Resolution Interpersonal Communication in the Organizational Context Team Work and Team Regulation Processes Information Technology (IT) in Human Resources NOTE: The above curriculum outline is intended as a guide only. The sequence of course offerings is subject to change at the discretion of the administration. Contact us: www.waldenburginternationalcollege.org.uk Wicm32@yahoo.com