بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم السلام عليكم ورحمة الله تعالى وبركاته بشرى سارة لأنصار التوحيد والجهاد من مؤسسة (( دار التبيان )) للإنتاج الإعلامي والنشر والتوزيع القسم الإعلامي يقدم الشريط التحريضي الجهادي (( وحرّض المؤمنين )) للشيخ العالم الشهيد "عبد الله الرشود" رحمه الله وتقبله الشريط الصوتي المرئي (( وكذلك الرسل تبتلى ثم تكون لها العاقبة )) للشيخ المجاهد والأمير القائد "أبي مصعب الزرقاوي" حفظه الله وأعزه بنصره الشريط المرئي وملحمة الجهاد (( غزوة الشيخ عمر حديد رحمه الله )) القسم الإعلامي لتنظيم القاعدة في بلاد الرافدين الإصدارات جميعها مترجمة للغة الإنجليزية ونرجو نشرها على أوسع نطاق في منتديات عبّاد الصليب وشعوب البقر الرعاع الدهماء ، أغيظوا عبّاد الصليب بنقلها ونشرها لا حرمتم الأجر ولا أعدمتم الثواب يَا بَاغِيْ الْخَيْرِ أَقْبِلْ ! يَا كَتِيْبَةَ الْجِهَادِ الإِعْلاَمِيِّ وَالْمُجَاهِدِيْنَ الإِعْلاَمِيِّيْنَ أَقْبِلُوْا وَأَبْشِرُوْا وَاسْتَبْشِرُوْا أخوكم مراسل مؤسسة دار التبيان للإنتاج الإعلامي Media Department Of At-Tibyan Publications Presents The Following Videos و حرض المؤمنين “And Incite the Believers” فَقَاتِلْ فِي سَبِيلِ اللَّهِ لا تُكَلَّفُ إِلاَّ نَفْسَكَ وَحَرِّضْ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ عَسَى اللَّهُ أَنْ يَكُفَّ بَأْسَ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا وَاللَّهُ أَشَدُّ بَأْساً وَأَشَدُّ تَنكِيلاً “Then fight (O Muhammad) in the Cause of Allaah, you are not tasked (held responsible) except for yourself, and incite the believers (to fight along with you), it may be that Allaah will restrain the evil might of the disbelievers. And Allaah is Stronger in Might and Stronger in punishing.” [an-Nisaa’: 84] يَا أَيُّهَا النَّبِيُّ حَرِّضْ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ عَلَى الْقِتَالِ إِنْ يَكُنْ مِنْكُمْ عِشْرُونَ صَابِرُونَ يَغْلِبُوا مِائَتَيْنِ وَإِنْ يَكُنْ مِنْكُمْ مِائَةٌ يَغْلِبُوا أَلْفاً مِنْ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا بِأَنَّهُمْ قَوْمٌ لا يَفْقَهُونَ “O Prophet (Muhammad)! Urge the believers to fight. If there are twenty steadfast persons amongst you, they will overcome two hundred, and if there be a hundred steadfast persons they will overcome a thousand of those who disbelieve, because they (the disbelievers) are people who do not understand.” [Al-Anfaal: 65] Video-taped lecture given by the Shaykh of the Mujaahideen in the Arabian Peninsula Shaykh ‘Abdullaah ibn Muhammad Ar-Rashood May Allaah preserve him and assist him MPG http://tinyurl.com/aahac Middle Quality 200 Mb http://tinyurl.com/9aptz The following link is a version with both, English and Russian subtitles, and its only 97 mb. http://russ.jamaat-islamia.org/rashood.wmv At-Tibyān Publications Presents وكـذلـــك الـرسـل تـبـتـلى ثم تكـــون لـهـا العــــاقبـة “Such Are the Messengers Tested, and Then the Outcome Will Be In Their Favor” “Alif Lām Mīm. Do people think that they will be left alone just because they say: “We believe,” without being tested (i.e. put in tribulations)? And We have tested those who came before them and Allāh will certainly make known those who are truthful, and He will certainly make known the liars…” [Al-‘Ankabūt: 1-3] للشيخ القائد أبي مصعب الزرقاوي حفظه الله By the Shaykh, the Commander, Abū Mus’ab Az-Zarqāwī (May Allāh preserve him and aid him with His Victory) "So this is a new admonition that I send to you by way of beautified words… And this is a beat from the depths of the heart and ribcage… From a soldier that is standing at the gates of war and its severe sounds… From Abū Mus’ab Az-Zarqāwī to whom he sees as the people of the times who possess manhood..." Divx 643 Mb http://tinyurl.com/8cymg Very high Quality 1.1 Gb MPG http://tinyurl.com/d7hh5 At-Tibyān Publications Presents غزوة الشيخ عمر حديد رحمه الله “The Expedition of Shaykh 'Umar Hadid (may Allah have Mercy upon him)” "The Military Command Council gathered and decided to carry out an expedition in the city of Baghdad and its surrounding areas, and the name was chosen for it: 'The Expedition of 'Umar Hadid (may Allah have Mercy upon him).' This commander who never remained silent in the face of oppression, and attacked the Crusaders just as he attacked the Ba'athists before them, until he ended up becoming a fugitive in their eyes and he met his Lord during the second battle of Fallujah in the year 1426 H. So, the Mujahidin completed their preparations and awaited the signal to begin the expedition, until it was the zero hour." Shaykh Abū Mus’ab Az-Zarqāwī (May Allāh preserve him and aid him with His Victory) : "So, O you lions of Tawhid on the dear Lands of the Rafidayn! I requested from you that if you receive this call of mine, that a night does not come to you except that your swords are dripping with the blood of your enemies! أ Rise to them as one man! There is no good in a life in which sanctity is being violated and the honor of our sisters is being defiled and we are being governed by the worshippers of the Cross!" Now Out AVI 590 MB http://tinyurl.com/8japt RMVb 200 Mb http://tinyurl.com/cwa32 59 mb RM http://tinyurl.com/caduq نقلها عن الخاص مأمورا سامعا مطيعا أصغر القوم سيف الإسلام عفا الله عنه وعن شيوخه ووالديه والمسلمين وجعلها الله في ميزان الحسنات إن شاء الله