Sooner or later the day will come when the US will be accounted for its crimes in Iraq and its destruction Allah Almighty willing, and recognise the legal and moral responsibility. They are required to submit a formal apology to the Iraqi people for the crimes of the occupation and destruction of Iraq and to pay the full compensation in order to remove all the consequences of its aggression. More...Victory Premiums In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful There goes another batch of obnoxious American occupying troops, leaving Iraq dragging behind them a tail of losses and disappointment. After seven dry years; the tyrants dreams evaporated and their hopes dashed against the historic resistance shown by the slaves of the merciful, the sons of the mosques in a historic battle, one of the most important battles in our morden times. They were patient by Allah and for Allah and their lord was the best help and victor, the Almighty says: &quot;We will, without doubt, Help Our apostles and those Who believe, (both) In this world's life And on the Day When the Witnesses Will stand forth&quot; After the US ended the clod war in their favour, it began to think about shaping the world according to their way and will, so it decided to invade the heart and lung of the world - The Middle East. Their sick imagination produced fake projects, to split up the region into small containers who are in disputes with each other so that Israel is the only country in control in the region, playing at the contradictions and rivalry and living peacefully away from any threat. Also the presence of US troops in this region that supplies the world with 65% of its oil needs means that the US had clinched the big countries from there stomachs and then the US will live a century of prosperity and bliss with nothing to worry about. However Allah was ready and waiting, but he did not prepare for them a large army armed with deadly weapons such as they ones they owen, he prepared teenagers who believe in him who's foreheads do not know any humiliation except for Allah, who's pure hands never cleansed anything from the wreckage of this world and who's minds were not taken by the beauty of the magic from the east nor the fitnah from the west. They stood in the way of the US dreams and their chantting awoke the US from that which they have overlooked. Here they are defeated leaving behind their investments as said by their spokesman for the ministry of foreign affairs &quot; The US most think of a way to protect their investemnt in Iraq that has reached three Billion dollars&quot;, this is Allah's punishment to them for having the opposite of their intent as is his way with unjust aggresses &quot; but the Unbelievers,—Their deeds are like a mirage In sandy deserts, which The man parched with thirst Mistakes for water; until When he comes up to it, He finds it to be nothing: But he finds God (Ever) with him, and God Will pay him his account: And God is swift In taking account.&quot; The enemies of Allah are certain of defeat and disappointment that is why they are no longer planning to stay and continue with the sick dreams and projects &quot; The big Middle East&quot; and &quot; The new Middle East&quot; instead they have awoken to a new reality, made by the champion lions in the land of Jihad and executioners. The enemies of Allah have started planning for one thing only - how to withdraw calling it a &quot;responsible exist&quot; to save the imperialists face that is no longer benefiting from any amount of makeup. For this they have used various tricks some of which are: Using the media to say that this withdrawal came about as a result of the security agreement for this we say, the US is not a charity organisation who's aim is to go round the world collecting the delirious prospectors and the displaced than placing them on the thrown only to move on to another country to do the same while being cheered and greeted as they leave. Upon arrival the US has created a mutilated political system producing a government, in order to pass through their projects by them and using them to cover up their military defeat on the ground as well as a cover for their defeat. Also they made the withdrawal in phases rather than in one go, so as not to appear overly obvious, splitting up their defeat into phases because their political balance in the world does not allow them to announce their defeat all in one go. Regardless of this we accept to take the split form of victory as the believers are used to forgiving the hardcore ones even if they are non-believers, and good will comes natural to the believing people which for them is preserved for all mankind. Another way to look at this is splitting up victory means that the hearts of the believers will rejoice every time one part of it is complete and after each phase is complete another comes after it until the picture is complete than the believers will be happy with the complete victory against the enemies of Allah. Another of the their methods to cover up for their defeat is to reduce the number of losses announced, the US has not confessed to a approximately a tenth of their defeats. This percentage is unacceptable to neither a sound mind or logic and when the years go by and the privacy is lifted from the US documents for the Iraq war than the world and in particular the US people will know the true size of their losses in personal and material that will be identical to the Mujahdeens statistics. For example here are the statistics for the Islamic Army In Iraq for seven years of fighting against the occupier from 2003 to 2009, the results were impressive and blissful with Allah's grace they anger the enemy and bring joy to the truthful ones. The champions of the Islamic Army caused the US occupier in seven years heavy losses, its total brings a feeling of joy and happiness with Allah's victory to his troops. More than 30000 have perished and buried, more than 200 officers with different ranks some of which are very heigh ranking, 2549 fell due to sniper bullets from the groups snipers and double these numbers in wounded and injured. The number of vehicles destroyed and disabled due to military operations is more than 10578 vehicle of different types. The number of planes shot down or destroyed in there bases 149 planes between; helicopters, cargo planes, spy planes and one fighter plane f16 model. The occupying bases and headquarters were rained upon with more than 8525 different rockets, 18296 mortar rounds and different grenades. Let alone 5187 ambushes where our Mujahdeen clashed directly with the enemy troops causing them large losses in personal and material. These losses were the sum of more than 69972 operation and attacks, of which detonating 35415 IED in there types, As the brookings institute in the US mentions that 40% of the US military losses was caused by IED's and 30% was due to sniper fire and direct fire at the time when Vehicle born improvised explosive device (VBID'S) only accounted for 3% of losses. The Baker Hamilton report at the end of the 76 recommendation says that their troops received (1100) attack in one day in 2006. After: Sooner or later the day will come when the US will be accounted for its crimes in Iraq and its destruction Allah Almighty willing, and recognise the legal and moral responsibility. They are required to submit a formal apology to the Iraqi people for the crimes of the occupation and destruction of Iraq and to pay the full compensation in order to remove all the consequences of its aggression. O'Allah give victory to the Mujahdeen in your cause everywhere, O'Allah heal our wounded and the sick, free our prisoners, accept our dead as martyrs with you and raise them to the highest platform in heaven and forgives us, our parents and the rest of the muslims dead or alive. Finally we praise Allah and blessings and peace upon our Prophet Muhammad and his family and companions. The Islamic Army In Iraq Tuesday 31-08-2010
