Secondly: We announce the launch of ( The Quran nation's campaign to reply to the cross worshipers) we call for an increase of military operations against the US forces in Iraq and Shame on the church and shame on the haters. More...In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful A Letter to the Quran Nation To the Islamic nation, the nation of the Quran, To its scholars and preachers To its knowledgeable and thinkers To its righteous and good To the Mujahdeen who Allah said about them (Lowly with the Believers, Mighty against the Rejecters, Fighting in the Way of God, And never afraid Of the reproaches Of such as find fault. That is the Grace of God, Which He will bestow On whom He pleaseth. And God encompasseth all, And He knoweth all things") We congratulate you all for the coming of the blessed Eid al-Fitr, May Allah accept from us and you our good deeds, May he forgive us and you as he is the forgiver and the merciful. May Eid come again with victory, control, goodness and blessings. It is unfortunate that this blessed occasion is spoilt by the intention of the US baptist church in Florida to burn copies of the Quran on 9/11. They purposely chose to announce this during (Ramadan the month the Quran was brought down) in sight of the whole world in aggression against the symbols of this nation and its feelings. To prove the wickedness of their civilisation and their culture is foolish and vain. The aggression from the start has targeted the Quran and its people, the mosques and its people. From the first moment they ripped the Quran and bombed the mosques and they were not satisfied with lunching a series of wars based on void lies and obvious tricks, announcing from time to time a crusader war. When condemnation came from some people, they said in a taunting manner : It was a slip. Going ahead with these heinous acts will give the strong push for the nation of believers and the carriers of the Quran everywhere to defend the book of the Al-Mighty as has happened many times before when the enemy attacked the Quran and or the Prophet peace be upon him. O' Muslims: What the enemy intends to burn is your glory and dignity the Almighty says: (We have revealed for you (O men!) a book in which Is a Message for you: Will ye not then understand?). The holy Quran; the complete, the most beautiful, the most noble, talks to the soul and it listens, talks to the heart and it submits, talks to the soul and it is convinced, talks to the ears and it listens, talks to the eyes and it waters and if it came down on a rock it would crack ( Had We sent down This Qur-ān on a mountain, Verily, thou wouldst have seen It humble itself and cleave Asunder for fear of God.) it has defeated preachers, muted the eloquent, shut the poets and astonished the geniouses. (No falsehood can approach it From before or behind it: It is sent down By One Full of Wisdom, Worthy of all Praise.) So to you glories people: Do not let your anger be demonstrations, to absorb the anger or just statements, the Americans are arrogant and continuing in their transgression. They ignore all languages and every means to good they deny, nothing works with them except fire and iron. O' you who carry the pens and the men from the media: instead of writing lies and promoting them without any proof, teach the people your means. (whosoever Follows My guidance, will not Lose his way, nor fall Into misery. * But whosoever turns away From My Message, verily For him is a life narrowed Down, and We shall raise Him up blind on the Day Of Judgment.) (Verily this Qur-ān Doth guide to that Which is most right (or stable), And giveth the glad tidings To the Believers who work Deeds of righteousness, That they shall have A magnificent reward;) and the Prophet peace be upon him said ( the best of you who learns the Quran and teaches it). O' you Mujahdeen across the world and in Iraq particularly, you who gave your self and everything precious and broken the mightiest army and Allah has given you victory in many places. Let the world listen to your anger and show them your revenge for the book of your Lord and the weapons in your hands. Let the crusaders hear from you an Islamic anger that will deafen the ringing their ears and paralyse their limbs. This nation prepares armies and gives all including their souls to save a women so how is the case if the one attacked is the book of Allah let it be a deafening shout to avenge for the Quran. Your heros have prepared their gear to reply to this heinous act and to combine the reading of the Quran with working in accordance with it and giving it victory. Nation of Quran: To the fasting there was two joyful events and in this day has come two Eid's, two things are a most: firstly: The Islamic Army In Iraq presents to you its Special release " The Mission Continues" that will document the military achievements for the group during the seven years of struggling with the enemy. Secondly: We announce the launch of ( The Quran nation's campaign to reply to the cross worshipers) we call for an increase of military operations against the US forces in Iraq and Shame on the church and shame on the haters. O' Swords of this nation: pay for the sound of the Quran with your souls, pour your blood in defence for it and Allah is with you and he is your victor (God will Certainly aid those who Aid His (cause);—for verily God is Full of Strength, Exalted in Might, (Able to enforce His Will) O' Allah give victory to the truth and its people and defeat the falsehood and its people, protect your book, your prophet and your religion from being tampered with and the plots from the plotters. The Amir of the Islamic Amry In Iraq 10-9-2010
