“…The Rule is but for Allaah…” By Abu Hamzah Al-Muhaajir All praise and thanks are due to Allaah, we seek His Help and we seek His Forgiveness. We seek refuge with Him from the evil of our souls and the evil of our actions. Whosoever Allaah guides then none can misguide him, and whosoever Allaah leaves to stray then none can guide him. I bear witness that there is none worthy of worship save Allaah, the One Who has no partner and we bear witness that Muhammad (sallallaahu ’alayhi wa sallam) is his servant and Messenger. O Ummah of Islam my precious Ummah The day we have promised you has arrived quicker than we had hoped, and hastier than we thought. Verily this is the great triumph, its tiding has arrived enlightening the hearts, amazing the souls, pleasing the friends and infuriating the enemies. For here is the state of Islam! verily here is the state of Islam! In the land of the two rivers (Iraq) its body strengthening, its contingent discrete, its banner wavering proudly. Triumphantly with the triumphant, ridiculing the ridicule. Here is your enemy stammering from the mountain crushing catastrophes and calamities that have befallen him, unable to bear the burden or put out its flame, and today he carries his possessions hoping for nothing but to flee. For his tent is faltering and his cauldron has toppled, and the storm of the Mujahideen has uprooted his roots and demolished his pillars and toppled his dreams upon his head, becoming determined on departing and clenching on to defeat, unable to rest and unable to stay, for after all this I can do nothing but to thank the stupidest and most ill-fated president of the states of slavery ,drugs and gambling has ever known across its ages who gave us this historic and great chance bringing his men of expertise and territorial army to the state of ultimate warfare conflict so that the two armies met in a scene which we never would have dreamt or imagined. So with the power and will of Allah a Muwahid Iraqi farmer who is simple almost illiterate was able with his small explosive device to blow up the American civilization and technology to shreds so that the dreams of Uncle Sam may fly with the limbs and bits of metal scraps. In the land of water and oil I would like to remind the obeyed idiot that he has managed in a very small period of time to bring back the gallantry of the ancient Persian Empire for he was more of a curse upon his nation than Gorbachev was on his soviet union. Spreading the control of Persia in Afghanistan from which he turned to Iraq opening it treasures for them. After they never dared to dream of a sip of water all of the sudden they acquire its oil and steal its treasures and enslave its men then he made for a third with the land of Shaam terrorizing its Taaghiyah the rafidiite nusairy , still continuing to embargo him forcing him to open his land to hundreds but thousands of Persians so that they may live there becoming the slaves of the dajjaal nasrulaat the so called Nasrullaah who has come out with his acclaimed victory over the peek of the roman war machine. With that the Persian empire is stretching to the lands beyond the river to Iran then passing in Iraq where lies therein Madaa’in and ending with Shaam so I wonder will the Zoroastrian Persians repay the idiot bush who returned there glory days without firing a single bullet or sacrificing a single soldier. I wonder will the wise men of Rome realize that they have become slaves to Persia, mercenaries fighting but with no reward. For finally here is the American nation taking its first step in the right direction that will save it from its entrapment, beginning to realize that Bush and his administration are nothing but puppets to Israel, they voted for something which is somewhat close to sanity in there recent elections. I wonder will the politicians keep the promises they gave to there people, so that they make the hearts of the mothers content by snatching back there sons from between the canines of the lions in the land of the two rivers, and will they stabilize the great debt which the economy is going through which was wasted on a stupid losing ill-fated war. Will they realize that the tax payers, pay for the price of the bullet that kills there sons in Iraq. I say to the limping duck do not make haste to flee as like the haste of your Secretary of Defense that limping dwarf, for we are not yet quenched from your blood, have some patience in the battlefield you coward!!! We know that the Romans are not ashamed of defeat. O Muslim muwahideen, O mujahideen in the corners of this earth we today declare an end of a phase of one of the phases of jihad and declare the beginning of a new important phase. So we place in this new phase a quintessence for the establishment of Khilaafah and to return the glory to the religion. O believers, O mujahideen we are not the sons of Sykes and Peacock we are the sons of Muhammad ibn Abdillaah peace be upon him who set up his blessed state in that pure spot Taiba, which stands in the middle of the desert where there is no sustenance, nor water except that which is a blessing from the lord of the Earth and heavens. Did he, peace be upon him, seek to separate and shred the peninsula when he declared his state in Madinah and fought his own people in Makkah. O muwahideen be content for we shall not rest from our jihad until we are under the olive trees in Rome after we destroy the filth house the so called White House. The place which your brothers have set to be the place of there state is but only from the sayings of our blessed prophet peace be upon him “and he whom enters the house of abu sufyan than he is safe” it is only a stand back for strike and a regroup for an offensive. Do you think that we spilt our blood that we may leave our brethren in Kurdistan a prey to the secularist or in the south an easy meal for the Jews of Asfahaan? Think well of us it is but only a fortress and it is necessary to have limit for every fortress. I say what is it with a certain people who smile in our faces then stab us in our backs “…he meets you making you feel he has trust in you, and when he turns from you than he is the scorpion, he gives from the tip of the tongue sweetness and he maneuvers you like a fox ...” To those we say we do not deny that we kill a policemen who went to trains under the hands of the Satan of Jordan and then leave those who took the Taaghut himself as a friend, host and minder. Taking him to be of truthfulness and honesty. They gathered around the blood of the martyrs and the limbs of the disabled in secrecy sealing crooked agreements with the invading Americans. We know those people who sat with the traitor Abdullah in secrecy evem though they declare him a kafir in public in front of the ignorant, and we have the evidence and witnesses to testify. O slaves of Allaah repent! Repent! And do not betray your deen and your brothers and your jihad for shaytaan I mean the shaytaan of knowledge and power is confusing you. O slaves of Allaah it is known that every obligation is not done without it being an obligation for it to be agreed upon by the jama’ah. The people of usool have certified in there saying; that which is not done except through obligation is itself an obligation to be agreed upon. For the thwart of the plot of the aggressors and preserving the sanctity of Muslims and more importantly establishing the firm shari’ah of Allaah is not to be done whilst the people are fighting singly differentiating without a leader who unites there ranks, gathers there piece, so they are from one opinion and one heart. Even though the arms may be different in length short and long, weak and strong. Leave O Muslim brother the sayings of those who say the most important thing is to be united in view and perspective and not to be united in sword and shield. This is against the common nature of minds and against the guidance of the prophet and what the people of Hal and Aqad have agreed upon. Now that the moment of truth and decisiveness has befallen. To the honored shaykh and to the noble hero, the haashimite Quraishite, the hussanite in descent, the leader of the believers Abu Umar Al-Baghdaady I say: I give you allegiance to hear and obey in hardship and ease, in activity and rest, a binding upon us, and not to argue the issue with its people, to say the truth wherever we may be, not fearing the blame of the blamer. We hereby dissolve all the units we have formed including Majlis Shuraa al mujahideen and on behalf of my brothers in the majlis under the command of the Islamic state of Iraq we put under your command and your direct leadership, 12,000 fighters to be the army of Al-Qaa’idah! All have given bayah on death for the sake of Allaah and more than 10,000 others who have not finished there preparations yet there eyes are overflowing from tears in sadness for not having the complete capability as yet asking Allaah for us to have accomplished the requirement of victory in terms of both spiritual and materialistic, in truthfulness to the prophet peace be upon him in his hadeeth in haakim’s mustadrak “the best company is 4 and the best army is 4,000 and 12,000 will never be defeated from (lack of) number” I say to our blessed and beloved leader go wherever Allaah and his prophets sunnah command you. For by he who raises the sky with no pillars if you where to take us through the sea we would take it with you and not a single one of us would turn for we are from today your proud soldiers and your sincere men so take us through what you wish of calamities and tribulations for you will not find from us nothing but hearing to what you say and obedience to whatever you command and the battlefields know to well our ways, our might and our strength so put us in your bow and fire us at your enemy we will shred his liver and bring you his news with the power and permission of Allaah Our blessed mujahideen brothers the people of akhlaaq and manhajj and deeds you have the disbelievers taste torment and you have rubbed his nose in mud by Allaah my soul is shield for you have been the best of backing and support and the best help and aide and you have enlightened our hearts with your jihad and your deterring of your enemy so may Allah bless you my beloved and my brothers did you not go seeking what we seek did you not seek for Allaah’s word to be supreme and the word of the disbelievers to be inferior are you not spilling your blood to establish an Islamic state if our religion and target is one and our enemy is one so what then makes not be in one line for Allaah loves those who fight in his cause in a straight united line as if they are straightened building so o heroes of Jaysh Ansar As-Sunnah and o lions of Jaysh Al-Islami and O our sons in Jaysh Al-Mujahideen. O you who where the thorn that aggravated the enemy and faltered his banner and smeared his dignity and gave him the might which engorged his body with wounds and made blood flow from his body. O you who made his days be cursed and made his armies forget there imaginings O leaders of ansar and Jaysh Al-Mujahideen and the rest of the sincere ones our longing for you has increased and our arms are yearning for your embrace. Your brothers are praying to Allah to protect you and for you to give them tidings of the day which you declare what you got them acquainted to from you such as purity in manhajj and clarity of target so you may bless the Islamic state of Iraq and you give allegiance to the shareef as a leader for we are not better than you so that we may go forth and you turn away for we deem you are better than us in jihad and are less interested leadership and are more greedy for reward and we deem you to be more sincere in religion. You have known that it is that which causes the enemy to become angry and to bring happiness to friends abolishing the chance for the enemy from splitting the line and disuniting the word and return his dagger to his own breast and to the breast who sits with him in secrecy losing his religion and his people. I remind my brothers soldiers of the state with the saying of Allaah O people the promise of Allaah is truth so do not be fooled by the life of this world and do not be fooled by the foolish (dunya) so do not come near to the place of foolishness and stick to the land of eternity the day you see the believing women and men there light flowing from within them verily most people are like lost animals they do not know why they exist and to where they are heading. Remember that you are fighting to bring the people from worshiping the slaves to worshipping the lord of the slaves for the peek of what you seek is martyrdom for the sake of Allaah for the echo of the sound of the place of one of you in heaven is better than this world and what it contains. Remember that your sent to bring ease and were not sent to make hardship so fear Allaah in our people of sunnah bestow our right on them and put people in there right status especially the scholars and the leaders of tribes and there likes for the farmer in his farm and the worker at his factory and the teacher in his school has the duty of protection upon us we protect there honor and preserve there wealth. We restrain our tongues from them even if they are not from the people of jihad. For it is not possible for the man to desert his people or his people to desert him. Be gentle in doing the good and forbidding the evil for its clear that the kafir ba’ath has confused the religion of the people he peace and blessings be upon him said Allaah likes gentleness in all the matter and an A’araabi who urinated in his masjid the people stopped him do not stop him let him finish then he called for water to clean for the deen of Allaah is verily ease and be warned off fanaticism and extremism he peace be upon him said and who ever pulls the religion hard except that religion makes the most of him (i.e. wears him down) and Allaah says and he did not make that which in the religion to a source of uneasiness for you. And Allaah is all commanding over his affairs but most people know not….the soldier Abu Hamzah Al-Muhaajir