In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. Press release: We have had enough from those who fabricate lies on others to please their masters and get some of their low desires. That man called Ayham al-Samarai exceeded the proper limits of the religion, logic and mind. He got used to fabricate lies on others everyday without any shyness and we kept being patient for a long time against his lies and tricks. Previously, we were only denying and telling the truth against his lies, but this seems to be useless. Hence, we want to clarify the following to the people: 1-We know very well what America aims by these lies, and we mentioned that in previous releases. 2- What America aims is to scatter the force of the Mujahideen but we are telling them: The Jihad is a great worship "Truly Allah loves those who fight in His Cause in battle array, as if they were a solid cemented structure." (As-Saff,4). Therefore we worship Allah by being together as a (solid cemented structure) and America will only gain shame and dishonor. As same as which butt the rock to bring it weak….it only got a weak horn. 3- One of its goals is to make barriers between Iraqis and non Iraqis but it is very exposed because supporting Muslims is amust and especially in such cases when the whole Muslim nation suffers from dangers. How come that the Muslim Mujahid from any country is considered foreigner while the infidel invader and his tails are considered as a governor as well as judge as well as witness!! 4-America wants to bring the Baath members back in spotlights but under the cover of resistance. Therefore, they made agreements with Ayad alawi to go ahead and plot with the Baathi Ayham Al-Samraai to turn around the Jihad and the Mujahideen. They want to trick the Mujahideen but we are telling them: USA with all of its forces and agents and weapons cannot defeat the Mujahideen who keeps taking power from their God so, try to save your efforts and time instead. 5-By occasion, we are announcing that killing Ayham Al-Samarrai is lawful and from now he became a target for all the Mujahideen and especially for the Mujahideen*of the three groups (The Islamic army in Iraq, The Ansar As-Sunnah Army and Al-Mujahideen army). So let the ِAmerican Oil traders guard him now. Whoever does the same will get the same. Praise be to Allah. Allah is the Greatest and all honor and glory belongs to Him. Signature: Islamic army in Iraq Ansar As-Sunnah Army Al-Mujahideen army