In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. Common operations. "Fight them, and Allah will punish them by your hands, cover them with shame, help you (to victory) over them, heal the breasts of Believers" AT-TAWBA, 14. Praise be to Allah, the All- Strong, the All-Mighty. Peace and blessings be upon the prophet of guidance, the prophet of the great battle, all-Mighty on his family and all his companions. The heroes of the Islamic Army in Iraq, the army of Ansar As-Sunnah, and the Army of the Mujahideen agreed on keep going through the way of Jihad together, hand in hand hitting the enemies with Ironic fist until they withdraw defeated, with broken claws, and lost hopes by the grace of The most honored and The most powerful. They started common military operations in order to make the victory for their religion, to guard the Muslims sanctities, to anger the infidels, and to let the people with sick hearts know that the continuity of the war will only increase our power, our combination, and brightness. The first production of this combination is a group of the blessed operations- God willing- in the rest areas of Baghdad and its districts using all of available war tools: direct clashes, bombed cars driven in some cases by martyrs, attacks on fixed points of the enemy and by all the weapons. The first bullet was released at half by six in the morning of this Wednesday 22/6/2005 by bombarding the American Base in Baghdad airport using rockets and mortar bombs. The attacks in Al-Shu’ala, Al-Amel district, Azamiya, Ameriya, and Abu-Gharib continued while this release was written, and we will tell you the details as soon as we recieve them. O’ the brave Mujahid, wherever you are: great greetings of respect for you because you are our head crown. Go ahead by the blessing of Allah, don’t hesitate and don’t waste the chance: They prepared you for a great mission ….so don’t be with the lowly people. O’ the Islam and Tawheed lion: Stand up for the great mission…You are the most suitable for it. Be as they said: A nice perfume for you….my perfume is the dust of the war. High important warning: We are not responsible of the ruining deeds which aim at the innocents, and which are done for deforming the nice face of real Jihad. Praise be to Allah. Allah is the Greatest and all honor and glory belongs to Him. Signature: The Islamic army in Iraq…The army of Ansar As-Sunnah…The army of the Mujahideen