In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, who give victory to the believers mujahedeen and prayers and peace be upon his messenger Mohammed (PBUH) This is an urgent and important statement about the oil and gas law titled “Oil and gas Law,a new face of the economic occupation&quot; by the voice of the media spokesman of the Jihad and Reform Front, the statement summarized the objectives of America in occupying Iraq as the following : 1- Controling the wealth, and mainly oil and gas. 2- Security of the illegal, which calls itself Israel. 3- Fighting Islam in its power source and home. and about the reasons which has been announced such as mass destruction weapons and others is nothing but a lie,and Allah showed that it is false. The statement disclosed reports, numbers and statements received from experts in the American affairs confirm that the oil is the main objective of the war in Iraq. As one of Bush's senior advisors said that oil is the main objective in the attack on Iraq and what America will gain from oil will be much more than what it loses in this war. And that in Gulf countries there is two-thirds of Iraq's reserves, and it produce more than a quarter of Iraq's daily production. Also in Iraq there is 11% of the world's reserves with high quality and expectations nominate it ,as the last oil fields to run out in the world. And the statement said that the American affairs expert said that the motives of war on Iraq is oil and oil then oil. And he showed that America has been unable so far to get the benefits of the oil because of the Iraqi resistance, so it transformed its plan to the other scenario which is enacting laws of selling all wealth, especially energy and water sources, and started to sell oil and gas by a law enacted for this purpose. A group of competent scientists and experts from Mujahedeen belong to Jihad and Reform front studied this law and showed its nullity, and that will be published later, Allah willing. The statement showed the nullity of this law and the contract that it contains, from the legitimate, political, economical and security sides. In the statement an appeal to the good opinion of the nation's scientists from all political, legitimacy and legality fields, especially wealth and oil science to take their role and do their duty in avoidance the ugly economic occupation of Iraq, by showing the illegitimacy of the law and preparing scientific studies about it also to condemn and denunce this law, and to educate Muslim and Arab people about this great historical crime. Also it contains an alert to the decision-makers in neighboring countries and relevant countries to be alert to the interests of their peoples and the sovereignty of their country, which is being trampled by Americans boots who will eat what left from them as Iraq was eaten before. And in the statement warning to all those who provide any kind of assistance, facility, signing or accepting this law as he will be a legitimate target for all mujahedeen in any time or place, regardless with who he is related. In the statement also a call to all honorable people in the nation to perform their duty towards Iraq, in which the fate of Iraq generations is being sold cheaply to Washington and that the military occupation may be soon ended, Allah willing, but the economical occupation will not be ended unless the wealth end. And another call is to the world nations, especially the American nation and the British nation to increase the grip on their presidents who play with the fate of nations when they promised them to achieve prosperity, bliss and freedom but then nothing is seen except lots their sons corpses and tens of thousands of wounded , and the beneficiary of this are oil traders like Bush and Cheney, and your situation toward the war criminals is the main factor which determines our situation and our nation's situation toward you. The statement calls all the tribes to disavowal and fight all who participate in passing this law,or shame will be on them if they kept silent. Finally, the front calls the Mujahideen in the statement to do their duty toward this law as the following : 1-targeting all brokers ,traitors and all who will participates in passing this law 2- Targeting all oil monopoly companies, and all who work in it no matter whoever it belongs 3- Targeting all export pipelines to cut the enemy artery and to differentiate between them and the internal transmission lines which serves the people of the country. The statement is ended with a promise to Allah from all components of the Front to move forward in Jihad against enemies and target all their projects that aim to weakening and dividing the nation. Jihad and Reform Front Monday 24 of Jumada al-Thane 1428 H