In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah for his blessing as the other resources were cut. Praise be to Allah for his support when the enemy forces gathered against us and the weak hearts felt defeated. Allah assured the believers hearts; therefore they became certain of His victory and His promise. Allah opened his heavens doors for his unbeatable soldiers to help the believers, reveled for the truth his miracles, returned the true Islam and fixed its pillar, defeated the infidels and hypocrites and made that a miracle for the Muslims untill the day of judgement. O’ Allah continue your blessings by gathering the believers’ forces to fight infidels and make this blessing a beginning of your gracious grace and a base of establishing your prophet message spread process, O’ Allah heal the breasts of the believers. Prayers and peace be upon his messenger, the leader of the Mujahideen It became clear to everyone watches the news of America, Iraq and the region, that the rotten minds of the American administration has only produced destructive plans and failing treatments of what happens in Iraq and the whole region. After more than four years of fierce war which burnt everything, the Americans gained nothing but a lot of bloody welsh and flocks of wounded soldiers, and who survived from that didn’t survive from dementia, psychiatric illness, mania and anxiety. The American administration stole more than half a trillion dollars from their nation’s wealth and from the Muslims funds, and wasted that on burning the land of Iraq and killing it’s people, and at the end, they came back to their nation with thousands of killed and tens of thousands wounded and with endless lies and futile strategies plans. ‘But the Unbelievers,- their deeds are like a mirage in sandy deserts, which the man parched with thirst mistakes for water; until when he comes up to it, he finds it to be nothing: But he finds Allah (ever) with him, and Allah will pay him his account: and Allah is swift in taking account’ (AL-Noor (Light) 39) All of that was done -as they claimed- to give hundreds of thousands of Iraqis the freedom! (Actually they gave them death instead of freedom), but they did that by terrible daily killing and displacing, as a result of that, the number of displaced Iraqis reached five millions. They made Iraq and the whole region as a powder keg which is very near to explode with its people and the occupation. They handed the war and the whole region management to the Persian magus monster, the matter reached the extent that the Americans became incapable of resolving the problem in Baghdad without negotiating with the Iranian decision-makers on the sight of everyone. After all of that, Bush and some of his supporters showed up to talk about victory (Bush who actually drowned his nation in more defeats and in the mud of blood, chaos and tons of burned dollars). Yes, Bush has achieved remarkable success for the Parsee Iranian strategy and the area became an easy prey to the Persians!, Saudi Arabia is within the Magus guile, Bahrain belongs to Iran as the adviser of Khamanei announced several days ago, the Princes of Kuwait sold their shares of companies and lands preparing to escape after smuggling funds, the United Arab Emirates is enjoying the life , the Iranians play in the region as they like and even on the account of the American and their allies soldiers lives, the southern provinces of Baghdad became secure places for the Iranian intelligence and the Revolutionary Guards. O’ the American people: What did you profit from the ridiculous policy of Bush’s administration? You profit nothing but insulting the American space soldier, insulting the American fabulous shield, and dragging the Apache and the F16 in the dust, not only that, but Bush has placed your soldiers as prisoners under the control of the Iranians especially in the southern governorates in Iraq. We know that the Americans never concern the Iraqi situation and the Iraqi people because they came only for: the domination, wealth and security of Israel. Therefore, they don’t care about the deadly chaos and moreover, Rice and the Zionists want that to remain, they don’t care about the millions of displaced Iraqis and bloody lakes full of dead bodies. Then the Americans put their power behind passing the black constitution, which cuts Iraq into many pieces establishing the struggles between the different groups, then they will try to pass ‘Oil and Gas law’ which makes stealing the oil legally and officially. Your leadership helped the Iranians to take control over the entire Iraq and charged them nothing.. They did that using three big lies: 1. Mass destruction weapons. 2. The link between Saddam and al-Qaida organization. 3. That the Shiite majority suffered a lot from injustice. The world now knows that the first and the second reasons were big lies, but you should know that third one is the biggest lie, as the Shiites were not the majority dealt unfairly as they said, the Shiites ratio didn’t exceed 42% by anyway according to the statistics of Dr. Mahdee al-Hafiz who was a nationalist Shiite and was a former minister in the cabinet of the government of Allawi. Regarding unfair dealing, more than 60% of the Ba’th Party were Shiites, and (36) out of the (55) wanted were Shiites. We address the conscience of the American people –if there is still conscience- and we remind them that: 1- Hate of the American losses increases proportionally with the continuity of the presence in Iraq. 2- The Iranian government in Iraq uses dirty method to get what they want; they deal with the Americans and the Iranians, uses racism and sectarianism, all of that is to increase Iran's expansion. The criminal sectarian militias actually control all of these government foundations. 3- The number of Mujahideen and their efficiency increase day after day. They compete to make their lives and values available anytime for emergency cases, They always put in front of their eyes what Allah said:’ And slacken not in following up the enemy: If ye are suffering hardships, they are suffering similar hardships; but ye have Hope from Allah, while they have none. And Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom.’ Surah 4. An-Nisa’ (Women) 104 and: &quot;Can you expect for us (any fate) other than one of two glorious things- (Martyrdom or victory)? But we can expect for you either that Allah will send his punishment from Himself, or by our hands. So wait (expectant); we too will wait with you.&quot; Surah 9. At-Tawba (Repentance, Dispensation) 52, also, narrated by Hadhrat Abu Hurairah (RA) The Prophet (Sallallâhu Alaihi Wasallam) said, &quot;The person who participates in (Holy battles) in Allah’s cause and nothing compels him to do so except belief in Allâh and His Apostles, will be recompensed by Allah either with a reward, or booty (if he survives) or will be admitted to Paradise (if he is killed in the battle as a martyr). Had I not found it difficult for my followers, then I would not remain behind any Sariyah going for Jihad and I would have loved to be martyred in Allah’s cause and then made alive, and then martyred and then made alive, and then again martyred in His cause.&quot; And he also said, &quot;Paradise has one hundred grades which Allah has reserved for the Mujahidin who fight in His Cause, and the distance between each of the two grades is like the distance between the heaven and the earth. So, when you ask Allah (for something), ask for Al Firdaus which is the middle (best) and highest part of Paradise.&quot; [The sub narrator added, &quot;I think the Prophet (pbuh) also said, 'Above it (i.e. Al Firdaus) is the Throne of the Beneficent (i.e. Allah), and from it originate the rivers of Paradise.&quot;'] (Hadlth No. 48, Vol. 4 In the midst of these events, Congress met for a long time and the results were: giving priority to partisan interests over the national interest of America which is the going out of the Iraqi mud. That means that Iraqi and American river of blood will continue, and the dollars of warlords like Bush, Cheney and Rice will duplicate. Their dreams is to get rid of the resistance which waken them, but they never think about sitting on one table and negotiating with real resistance, not with the puppets, whom always they sit with. The Republicans, especially the new conservatives, wants to export this crisis to the next President of America and the democratic majority which still grovels timidly towards the solution. Our message to Congress was clear long time back, to render a law that make the forces withdrawal within a specific duration, make it an obligation. Until now they failed to do that, but there must be other attempts to get out the remaining soldiers and hand over the country to its real people not to Iran and its agents. O’ the American people: The American administration deceived its nation and claimed that Iran is a strong country, but the truth is that it is a worn country which was helped by Bush instead of subjecting it. He handed Iraq to Iran stupidly seen so. Until now, to restore balance in the region is possible if the American administration gets back to the facts and the numbers and put a new strategy especially if this administration admits that who rubbed America nose in the dirt is the brave resistance and the Mujahedeen who fight for their religion and their protected (not as they call them like ‘terrorists’). In summary: 1. The failure of the American administration will remain if they don’t stop repeating their stupid strategies, and if they persist on neglecting the truth and the practical situation. 2. What gave Iran, its government and its militias, the opportunity to take control in Iraq is the stupid politics of Bush Oil military administration not because of Iran power. 3. An obligating decision from Congress to withdraw troops within a definite time should be issued before talking in any other issue. 4. Arabs should put trust on Allah and stop relying on the USA which has always scared them with the Iranian freak. They should carry out real reforms in their country to enlist the nation’s energies, to protect its religion, honor, land and wealth and focus on conjunction of nations with its leadership to achieve the legitimate objectives. 5. America should respect the Sunni majority in Iraq and return to facts and figures rather than delusions. 6. What made failure to the American plans and stopped its Imperial project is the Sunni resistance by support of Allah, and it is capable, by Allah willing, to defeat the partitioning and the economic occupation plans and others, and it has the ability to continue for generations. 7. The futile sectarians and communists time is gone, so they must pack their bags, the Justice wind will finish them, Allah willing The all dignity and The all powerful. The borders of Iran are still opened since the occupation so they can return from where they came. 8. The people of this country, the country is yours, and who sow sedition will harvest its failure, they are the Safawists and sons of Sassan, so take care of them, and don’t leave the country and Spread Justice and establish the right. Forgive people and don’t put the responsibility of the crimes over the good people. ‘If ye reject ((Allah)), Truly Allah hath no need of you; but He liketh not ingratitude from His servants: if ye are grateful, He is pleased with you. No bearer of burdens can bear the burden of another. In the end, to your Lord is your Return, when He will tell you the truth of all that ye did (in this life). for He knoweth well all that is in (men's) hearts’. Surah 39. Az-Zumar (The Troops, Throngs) 7 9. O’ Sunni brave people, be patient , because the victory is patience of an hour and the victory came with the anguish verily, with every difficulty, there is relief, verily, with every difficulty, there is relief: ‘O ye who believe! Persevere in patience and constancy; vie in such perseverance; strengthen each other; and fear Allah. that ye may prosper.’ Surah 3. Al ‘Imran (The Family Of 'Imran, The House Of 'Imran) 200 10. O’ all the Mujahedeen: Always keep affection, love, cooperation, patience and selflessness. Take attention to the evil men and jinni that help each other to make deviations in the Muslims right way. Never deceive the nation using false names and media propaganda because the real power is in the gathering, and weakness happens if you are apart, lies will only bring defeat and pain: ‘O ye who believe! Fear Allah and be with those who are true (in word and deed)’. Surah 9. At-Tawba (Repentance, Dispensation) 119, ‘That Allah may reward the men of Truth for their Truth, and punish the Hypocrites if that be His Will, or turn to them in Mercy: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful’. Surah 33. Al-Ahzab (The Clans, The Coalition, The Combined Forces) 24 Finally we ask Allah to grant success to the Mujahedeen, to make them the governors, to grant mercy their martyrs, to cure their injured, to release their captives, to unify their efforts and defeat their enemies Ameen.. O’ Allah, defeat the spiteful Rawafeds (Shiites) and the Zionist Crusaders and their allies.. O’ Allah, make them with their equipments a booty for the Muslims.. O’ Allah destroy them.. O’ Allah , the sky is yours, the earth is yours, the sea is yours, O’ Allah , drop all their forces in sky down, destroy all their forces in earth and drawn all their forces in sea.. O’ Allah, retaliate upon them, afflict them like you did to Pharaoh and his nation, O’ Allah afflict their country with flood, make them in need of money and food and men.. O’ Allah defeat them, destroy them O’ the All-Strong, the All-Mighty The leader of the Islamic Army in Iraq 5th of Rajab 1428 H 19th of July 2007 www.iaisite.org