In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Statement no. 24 for year 1428- for year 2007 Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger After putting trust in Allah and by his support the American enemy got the following losses in the period from 1/7 to 31/7/2007: 1. The American army losses in vehicles as follows: • Burning, destroying, spoilage and causing damages to (124 vehicles with killing and wounding their crews, distributed as following: (8 armored tanks, 83 Hummers, one Lorry, 9 tankers, 12 minesweeper, 2 four by fours, 9 truck) 2. The total number of operations for the guerrillas and the especial fights (52) operation and the combats with the American forces (34) combats and with the Safawive forces that cooperated with it (55) and the operations of attacking their headquarters and exploding nests (12) and attacking the checkpoints that are appointed on the exterior roads and the walking convoys and kill and injure who are on them and Seize their weapons and equipments (17) and organized shelling on the headquarters and bases of the American army and who cooperates with them by missiles, mortars and the rkg3 Grenades and hand Grenades in all of the operation sections, and confrontation with the Safawive and Gader wing (Bader wing) attackers and clash with them during their Siege to the Sunnis areas and the mosques(7), and sniping operations (99) and the explosions operation (168) and the missiles launchings(28) launches, and mortars bombings(87) launches, the total number becomes up to (553) operations. 3. The American army losses in the individuals 25 killed including one officer and (24) soldier were killed by snipping and exploding in an independent operations and also killing and injuring 477 persons which represents the crews of the completely destroyed and the damaged vehicles, and by computing the lower limit for the existence of the individuals in each vehicle, the total number becomes up to 397 American officer and soldier adding to that tens of wounded individuals. 4. (105) missiles launched on the headquarters of the American enemy and who cooperates with them, dispense as following: (8 Katewosha, 11 C8, 32 C5K, 54 rocket Launchers). 5. 304 mortars and Grenades launched on the headquarters of the American enemy and who cooperates with them, dispense as following: (28 gauge 120 mm, 184 gauge 82 mm, 88 gauge 60, 4 Grenades rKg3). 6. The Idolater guards (ING) and the Interior forces (IMC) losses in vehicles and equipments: Burning, destroying, spoilage and causing damages to (81 different vehicles) dispense as following (one carrier, 24 Hummers, 8 Monekas, 21 Nissan cars, 27 civilian cars that where owned to Death groups). 7. The Idolater guards (ING), the Interior forces (IMC), the Iranian revolution forces, the (Itlaa’at) team whom is his attendant and the Kurd militias losses in individuals: killing and injuring 157 including five officers and 152 soldiers by sniping and exploding the walking convoys and adding 234 represent the crews of the completely destroyed vehicles and by computing the lowest limit for the individuals existence on each vehicle and by this the total number becomes up to 400 individual from the Idolater guards and the Interior forces adding to that tens of wounded individuals. 8. Finally killing the spies and the cooperators and the attacker Safawive militias (the local enemy) 184. Copy from it to: Jihad and Reform Front – (operations and media) to informing Strategies and studies center. Statistician and evaluation department Al-Fursan magazine Praise be to Allah, Allah Akbar and Glory to Allah The military leadership for the Islamic Army in Iraq Jihad and Reform Front