In the name of Allah, the most gracious, the most merciful Praise be to Allah, the One and Only, the Eternal, Absolute; He begetteth not, nor is He begotten; Prayers and peace be upon his messenger, He whom Allah, guides is rightly guided; but he whom Allah leaves to stray. Allah said: &quot;And (moreover) He hath put affection between their hearts: not if thou hadst spent all that is in the earth, couldst thou have produced that affection, but Allah hath done it: for He is Exalted in might, Wise&quot; (8,63) The severity of the Islamic activity groups may be praised if those who participate in it conform to the Islamic rules which put this severity in the framework of integrity. In this case, each group will be busy with its job which it is experienced in-by the grace of Allah- without attacking the other groups and without wrong or aggression. They won't accuse each other but integrate and coordinate with the others to complete the missions required from the singles and from the nation. They will advise and help each other –which is required by Islam-as Prophet Mohammed- peace be upon him- said &quot;A believer to another believer is like a building whose different parts enforce each other&quot;. This severity may turn into bad fanaticism if every group starts to wage war against the others to prove that its practical and ideological choices are the right and the others' are wrong. If this happens, problems will be deeper and the hearts will be far away then their loyalties will be unclear and they will start fighting each other, everyone will only see his part and will look at the others from the scope of pride and arrogance, he will start acting as he is the tongue of truth and classify the other as agents and traitors or at least some people digging in the sea or throwing the seeds in the air; this is really not fair and far away from the meanings of Justice and equity and this happens to whom aren't blessed by Allah and they will lose the success granted by Him – O Allah don't make us like them-. About such a kind of people Allah said: &quot; But people have cut off their affair (of unity), between them, into sects: each party rejoices in that which is with itself.&quot; (23,53). Here are the orders of Allah- to every believer adheres to obey his god- to avoid this way &quot; : As for those who divide their religion and break up into sects, thou hast no part in them in the least.&quot; and said: &quot;Be not like those who are divided amongst themselves and fall into disputations after receiving Clear Signs: For them is a dreadful penalty&quot;. There is no disagreement on the Islamic lawfulness of gathering on good job and adhering to obey the person in charge of it if that job didn’t include any kin of Maasi (sins). This is conditioned with that this gathering won't convert to bad fanaticism to a rule differs from Ahlu Sunna &amp; Jamaa' rules because this is the how the Firaq Dallah (straying groups) originate. Any bond of Jahiliya is null and this nullity is fundamental truth and doesn't accept any kind of argument. Praise and dispraise, nearness and farness, love and hatred shouldn't be taken on the basis of anything other that Quraan and Sunnah. Shaikh Al-Islam Ibn Taimiya said in his book Majmou al_fatawa: &quot;Anyone shouldn't make Praise or dispraise, Muwala or Muada, love or hatred, and prayers or curses conditional on anything or any name that Allah didn't make, like the names of tribes or cities, Madhab Shikhs' and Imams' Torok and such things which are used for identification, but whoever is Muslim should be supported and loved whatever school he follows, and whoever is Kafir should be hated whatever school he follows, and whoever mixes Iman with Fojoor should be treated as he is according to the ratio of Iman and Fojoor, he shouldn't be judged and taken out of the circle of Islam due to his sins and Maasi- as Khawarij and Muatazila say-. On the other hand prophets, Sediqeen and good people shouldn't be treated as people who make sins in the topics of Love or hate, praise or dispraise Muwala and Muadad.&quot; The positive aspect of the severity of the Islamic activity group will be achieved under these circumstances: 1- Following the right understanding of the main rules and flexible ones in classifying and adhering. This will be achieved by identifying the main and static rules and by purifying and guarding them from any kind of deviation. In the situations which accept Ijtihad the severity of opinions should be accepted. Groups working concept should be understood in its general and covering shape. 2- Permanent internal reformation carried out internally by each group itself continuously because the internal reformation is the normal start of the acceptance by others and integrity factor in dealing with them. 3- Fairness between the groups to activate the various religious jobs as a part of public movement for renewal and reformation. If these things are achieved, then it will be easy for love and coordination to remain and this severity will be accepted as positive phenomenon. Allah put some people on the points of touch with the enemies- which the nation suffers from- like what happened in Iraq when the Mujahideen activated the soul of Jihad and renewed the path of it because it is the right way to defend the crusaders, to get the victory and honour back to the nation and make it suitable to regain the old situation of the nation and rebuild what was destroyed of its civilization. The blessed steps of the Islamic activity groups on this way are coming in sequence; the latest step was declaring the political council of the Iraqi resistance which contents of Jihad and Reform Front with its four contents: The Islamic army in Iraq, Al-Mujahideen Army, Ansarusunnah (Religion committee), and Al-Fatiheen Army, beside the Islamic Front of the Iraqi Resistance (Jami) and Resistane Islamic group (Hamas Al-Iraq). The most important goals of this council are: 1- Seizing the opportunity to attack the criminal which target the religion, people, dignity, wealth and land. 2- Preventing meddlers and fishers in troubled water from gaining what they want from passing through the Jihadist project. 3- Activating the ability of the Mujahideen to liberate Iraq and developing a political program for that. 4- Decreasing the circle of disagreement as much as possible, and narrowing the gap between the points of view of the jihadist groups. This is a step forward on the way of meeting the principles of Sunni Community. 5- Working on providing appropriate alternative to save the country and its people and its Wealth from the impasse and the abyss. 6- Showing and revealing the defeatists and the sinners (that the way of the sinners may be shown up) 7- Reordering the priorities and putting the repelling of crusader and Safawists campaigns on the top. 8- Spreading the spirit of realistic optimism far from dreams, and consolidating the courage Pillars and dispersing the wave of fear and hesitation. At the same time we congratulate the nation in the occasion of the blessed Eid Al Fitr May Allah return it again to us while the nation is victorious and winning, secured and safe, blessed and guided. May Allah accept from us and from the nation the good worshipping and He may forgive us and them. We congratulate our nation the announcement of this Council, and we call the whole nation to: 1- Pray and ask Allah to make our hearts near and that we love each other and keep us away from Fitan. 2- Support this council. 3- Call the nation up to repel the western Crusader-Zionism and eastern Safawist enemies by all the means and collect all power resources and victory factors. 4- Refuse to surrender to the enemies anyhow. And we call all the Mujahideen to: 1- Be patient in their positions, put the trust in Allah, be honest with Allah in secret and in front of people and ask no one for help but Him, put the whole hope at His mercy. Victory comes with patience and relief with difficulty. Verily, with every difficulty there is relief. 2- Strike the western and eastern enemy with iron hand; continue militancy and Jihad until achieving the legitimate goals-Allah willing-. The most important of these goals is supporting the religion and defeating all forms of occupation and foreign influence, spreading truth, justice and security, and establishing the religion of Allah. 3- Not to accept the unreasonable scaring of politics and turning away from it, because legitimate politics is an important part of Islam, and prepare the required preparation for each event, with taking attention. 4- Expanding sins avoidance concept that it covers anything against the Islamic brotherhood and good deeds concept to cover all groups commit the principles of Sunna and Jama'a, and to be cautious of injustice in its all forms. Anyway, near and fast victory is not better than the good intentions, faith, goodness of speech and work, the success of the plan and remain of resolution alive in its highest degrees, Allah said: &quot;How many of the prophets fought (in Allah's way), and with them (fought) Large bands of godly men? but they never lost heart if they met with disaster in Allah's way, nor did they weaken (in will) nor give in. And Allah Loves those who are firm and steadfast&quot; (3,146) O Allah Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith. O Allah don’t make our life troubled and miserable and don’t and don’t give our enemies the opportunity to rejoice at our misfortune. O Allah make us fear of you that we never make sins and make us obey you that we guarantee Your paradise. O Allah give us the assurance that we don’t care about the difficulties on the way. O Allah make our enjoyment of our ears, eyes, and power permanent as along as we are alive. O Allah enable us to take revenge from those who trespass us and make us victorious upon our enemies. O Allah don’t make the difficulties in our religion and don’t make our highest target this life and don’t make it the most knowledge we have. O Allah don’t give our enemies the power to torture us because of our sins. O Allah Bestow on us endurance and make our foothold sure and give us help against those who reject faith. O Allah have mercy upon our martyrs, free our prisoners, heal our injured people, cure our patients, unit our hearts and ranks and make our word one word at your prophet path. Finally, praise be to Allah and Peace and prayers upon his messenger and all of his followers. Islamic Army In Iraq Jihad and Reform Front 19/10/2007