In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful All Praise and thanks are for Allah, the Lord of all that exists, prayers and peace be upon his messenger Obeying Allah in where Allah say: (And hold fast, all together, by the rope which Allah (stretches out for you), and be not divided among yourselves)and say: (And obey Allah and His Messenger. and fall into no disputes, lest ye lose heart and your power depart; and be patient and persevering: For Allah is with those who patiently persevere) and say glory to him in the speech of the Prophet Shu'aib Peace upon him: (I wish not, in opposition to you, to do that which I forbid you to do. I only desire (your) betterment to the best of my power; and my success (in my task) can only come from Allah. In Him I trust, and unto Him I look), and Obeying his messenger Prophet Mohammad , prayers and peace be upon him, in which he says (believer and believer are like a strong wall), and also prayers and peace be upon him says: [believers are like one body if any part of it became ill, then the whole body will not sleep and become ill], and achieving the goals of Jihad in the way of Allah, and standing in front of the local, regional and international challenges, an agreement has been made between the three groups: [Islamic Army in Iraq, Mujahedeen Army and the brigades of The legal association for Ansar al-Sunnah] to establish a united front under the name of [Jihad and Reformation Front (al-Jihad and al-Islah Front)] in which it contains unity in: A. The general, legal and formal laws. B. The general policies. C. The political program. D. Dealing with major events. E. Military Operations and statements. And in which the Front commits on the formal Sunni creed, behavior and argumentation, so it calls the following: 1. To all the nation's scholars; to give support, patronage and advice to this Front to continue Preaching and Jihad. 2. To all the Preachers, Mosque imams and students to give their role and support this Front with the good Muslims to accomplish this work. 3. To all the other Sunni Jihadist groups whom we invite them to join this Front because it is from and for them, and especially The Twentieth revolution brigades may Allah guide everyone to his obedience. 4. To all the scientists, experts, professors, officers and workers, who stopped in the front of the occupation and its agents in all its kinds, to support Allah and his Messenger, and stand with the Front to perform their duty in defending the religion and its necessities, in which the scientists are the most important fortunes for us and we take care of them. 5. To the media people and writers, to say truly their word and throw their arrows at the wrong, because media is half of the war. 6. To the noble tribes, especially the tribes' Sheiks to support their brothers and sons in this front, in which the courageous Mujahedeen are sons of this tribe. 7. To the rich and good people; to give from themselves what Allah gave them, in which Jihad and money never become separated. 8. To the whole nation; to support Mujahedeen by any means necessary because Jihad in Iraq is part of the nation's project and the responsibilities parted to all. And the front by its constituents- commit to continue Jihad in Iraq until accomplishing all the goals, which is the complete and true withdrawing of the occupation in all its figures from Iraq, governance in Allah's religion and supporting the truth and spread the welfare while suppressing the evil, by the following polices: 1) Justice is an ensured right for everyone, and our Jihad now is to expell the enemy and prevent him from further aggression. 2) Mujahedeen operations target the occupiers and their agents, and don't target innocents whom one of Jihad goals is to support them and achieve a good life for them, and use kindness as the way that we treat Muslims. 3) Dismiss the errors of the associations leaders, and try to have the confidence of the Muslims generally and especially Sunnis, and be far from all what can slander Jihad and Mujahedeen, even if it is legal considering people's understandings. 4) The intermediate position between extremism and alienation in each speech and action, and take the whole religion without separating it, and follow Prophet Mohammad Sunnah prayers and peace be upon him in the war and peace. 5) Not to be busy with side battles nor leave the main battle, and narrowing the struggle with the enemy and neutralizing whom can be neutralized. 6) Mujahedeen are the religion and its followers' protectors and one of our priorities is to save Muslims blood, money and honor. And be far from operating in the inhabited areas as we can, and seeing the operations' expected consequences to judge either to go on or to stop the operation and require for everything to be planned firstly or not to process, and those who help Mujahedeen are one of them. 7) Preserving all the material and moral fortunes and develop and exploit them, and spread the Islamic concepts in all the economic sides, and benefit all the Muslims' efforts and capabilities to support the cause. 8) Differ between the body of Islamic law which never change when time and place change, and the partial polices that change according to the benefits which are related to time and place, and that the Islamic legal opinion (Fatwa) changes according to time, place, the benefits and status, and all this is from Allah's religion. 9) Work to collect the benefits and complete them and to stop the corruption and decrease it, and if there were two benefits it will be to get the highest benefit and if there were two corruption it will be to get the least one and stop the biggest , and there is no benefit bigger than monotheism and no corruption bigger than polytheism. 10) Be realistic and to advance gradually in the performance, the evaluation and the treatment ,in addition to the increased ambition to reach all goals, and by this, we shall made a difference between the principle of advancing gradually in the rules legislation reaching to the stabilization status and making the religion perfect and between the realistic principle of advancing gradually in completing the abilities and the preparations. 11) Tacking care of the political and Islamic legalities and spread it, and that all our policies are passed according to Quran and the Sunna and the nation's old scholars way which compile between the originality and the renewal, and that the politics reality is to accomplish the reformation, so if it lost the reformation it will lose itself. 12) Differentiate between the political work that is disciplined to Islamic law and between sharing into the so-called political process like the elections and others, and there is no meaning to any political work that doesn’t care about the Iraqis' worries and firstly expelling the occupation, and release all the captured people from their prisons and their sectarian government prisons, and remove the despotism and the oppression from our people and apply Justice. And for this: • We don’t admit with any political game starting with the bad known Braymer council to the sectarian Malki traitor government. • We also don’t admit with the sectarian elections and consequently what built on it. • We don’t admit in any agrrement that these governments endorsed. • We don’t admit with the constitution that wrote under the occupation weapons, and also we don’t admit to any constitution that opposes Allah's faith. 13) Keeping people's security is from our priorities, and the duty of the armies, police and security forces totally is to protect the religion and its holiness, the country and its power and securing its people, but the armies, police and security forces in our country today are sectarian forces serving the occupation and they are a part of their projects and completing to its aggression and executing the occupation’s purposes. After that the completed unity under one legal banner is from our priorities, and our concerning on doing the duties that are build on the religion brotherhood, and our unity and loyalty come from the Islamic law and don’t follow persons nor exact names. You the glories: Your chance came to the believing severalty and the Gnostic superiority, in which the biggest purpose is to inquest bondage to Allah and no one else, so take care of your hidden actions and have sincerity in your intentions, and return to your god, and reconcile between yourselves, and cooperate with each other in doing right and true things: (Unless ye do this, (protect each other), there would be tumult and oppression on earth, and great mischief) and support each other: (The Believers, men and women, are protectors of one another: they enjoin what is just, and forbid what is evil: they observe regular prayers, practice regular charity, and obey Allah and His Messenger. On them will Allah pour His mercy: for Allah is Exalted in power, Wise.) And excuse your brothers actions, and cover their faults, and follow the bad thing with a good thing, treat people in good manners, Allah said (Nor can goodness and Evil be equal. Repel (Evil) with what is better: Then will he between whom and thee was hatred become as it were thy friend and intimate!, And no one will be granted such goodness except those who exercise patience and self-restraint,- none but people of the greatest good fortune). Continue in your Jihad faithfully, and Allah is with you, and will never put you in loss for your (good) deeds. And you shall perpetuate the high morale in reminding what Allah prepared to Mujahedeen and that victory is very near, and for what you see from Allah supporting you against infidels and enemies, and the honesty on you is big and the burden is heavy and needs activity and energy without any frailty or weakness, Allah said: (How many of the prophets fought (in Allah's way), and with them (fought) Large bands of godly men? but they never lost heart if they met with disaster in Allah's way, nor did they weaken (in will) nor give in. And Allah Loves those who are firm and steadfast.) And a beloved sacrifice won't be blocked by greed or stinginess, in which you sailed and Allah bought, Allah said: (Allah hath purchased of the believers their persons and their goods; for theirs (in return) is the garden (of Paradise): they fight in His cause, and slay and are slain: a promise binding on Him in truth, through the Law, the Gospel, and the Qur'an: and who is more faithful to his covenant than Allah. Then rejoice in the bargain which ye have concluded: that is the achievement supreme.) and take knowledge that the price of glory is cheap and the price of service is very expensive, and that the victory is for the patience of an hour, Allah said: (O ye who believe! Persevere in patience and constancy; vie in such perseverance; strengthen each other; and fear Allah. that ye may prosper.) You Islam heroes: America is falling down behind the mirage, so hit it with an iron hand so it wakes up from its dream Finally: the signers of this pact keep between them truthfulness on inquiry this cooperation and its continuing, and the saving its formal and hard working to made its purposes. At last we ask Allah to grant success to the Mujahedeen, to enable them, to grant mercy on their martyrs, to cure their injured, to release their captives, to unify their efforts and enable them to defeat their enemies Ameen.. O Allah, defeat the spiteful Rawafeds (Shiites) and the Zionist Crusaders and their allies.. O Allah, make them with their equipments a booty for the Muslims.. O Allah destroy them... O Allah , the sky is yours, the earth is yours, the sea is yours, O Allah , drop all their forces in sky, destroy all their forces in earth and sink all their forces in sea.. O Allah, retaliate upon them, afflict them like you did to Pharaoh and his nation , O Allah afflict their country with flood , make them in need of money and food and persons .. O Allah defeat them, destroy them O the All-Strong, the All-Mighty Prayers and peace be upon his messenger Signers: Islamic army in Iraq Al-Mujahedeen Army and The legal association detachment for Ansar al-Sunna Baghdad Wednesday 2/5/2007