IAI/confirming our previous attitudes towards what channels spread In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers The satellite channels are still showing up its poisons to promote the objectives of the occupier who made them and to cover the right to the people and to please their falsehood. Therefore we would like to confirm our previous attitudes towards what these channels spread: • The occupier and his henchmens play a role in dissipation between Mujahedeen and in derangement the people hoping within it to divert attention from his defeats in Iraq at the hands of the Mujahedeen. • Our approach is based on fighting the occupier by his two kinds and who supported him and who cooperated with him, therefore there is nothing between us and the occupation forces except fighting until we achieve victory with Allah's willing, and our jihad operations are still running in all sectors and strongly against the occupying forces, and their friends, the group has obligated all its elements not to hold any meeting or coordination with the American occupying forces and their friends and supporters. • We did not accept any government since occupying Iraq because they are the occupation pygmies, including the Safawive sectarian al-Maliki government therefore we don’t make any consideration to it, and its fate will be the same of the occupation to the obsolescent with Allah plan and it will be the fate of all the perverse and suspicious projects. • We ask help in our campaign over the enemies, of Allah and religion, from Allah and then from Mujahedeen power and we don’t have any need from others. • The peace agreement between us and Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia is still standing and effective and we are abidance on preserving the blood of the Mujahedeen. • Any personal conduct by any person in the Islamic Army (regardless his position) contradicts the legitimate approach of the group is rejected and he bear responsibility of it in front of the legitimacy court in the group. • We are not responsible for any statements not issued by our official sources or who are not authorized by the group who are only have the authorities for that are the official spokesman and the media spokesman of the group. Prayers and peace be upon Prophet Mohammad Dr. Ali al-Na’emi The media spokesman of the Islamic army in Iraq Friday June, 30, 2007