In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, He whom Allah, guides is rightly guided; but he whom Allah leaves to stray,- for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to the Right Way, we believe that there is no god except Allah, and that Mohammad his prophet, may Allah by upon him, O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement. While the people of Iraq in general and the Sunnis especially were waiting for help from their brothers everywhere as they are subjected to the worst sectarian attack in history by the new Persians with help of the crusader West with America in the front, the kingdom of Saudi Arabia government acts suspiciously by its new attitude of showing its wish to open its own embassy in Baghdad. It is a time which the Safawist Iranians wage their bloodiest war against the people of Islam and Sunnis in Iraq are waiting for a hand of help from the country which is the focus of the rest Muslims in their prayers and the aim of the rest Muslim pilgrims. Jihad and reform Front warns of the consequences of this step and count it a support to the Safawists in their aggression against us, calls the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia government and its people not to achieve this desire, especially in such circumstances where the Maliki government is in its worst conditions and weakness. We ask them to adopt a proper attitude and to be as their grandfathers who Allah gave them victory over their enemies because they supported His religion. On the other hand, we warn them of the anger of Allah and call them to revise the history of all the kingdoms which rebelled against Allah and were afraid of the some weak creators but not of their God. Do ye fear them? Nay, it is Allah Whom ye should more justly fear, if ye believe! (The Unbelievers are protectors, one of another: Unless ye do this, (protect each other), there would be tumult and oppression on earth, and great mischief.) O’ Allah lead this nation that it makes glory to your religion and believers and humiliate the infidelity and infidels, O’ Allah who gave us the Book, moves the clouds and who defeated the infidels, defeat the crusader Americans and the Safawists and whoever with them, O Allah we ask you to protect us from their evil. O’ Allah unit our hearts and lines and guide as to your right path. O’ Allah help us and don’t help them. O’ Allah give us victory over them. O’ Allah make our end a happy one and don’t punish us in thus life or the hereafter one. O’Allah accept our martyrs in your paradise and raise their degrees there. O’ Allah free our prisoners and firm on their beliefs and hearts. Praise be to Allah and the prayers on his apostle and his companions. Jihad and Reform Front 28 Rajab 1428 11-8-2007 Source: Jihad and Reform Front Site www,rjfront.info www.reformandjihadfront.org