Jihad and Reform front/ An Important statement about the blasts in TozKurmatu south of Karkuk Praise be to Allah, the All- Strong, the All-Mighty. Peace and blessings be upon the prophet of guidance, the prophet of the great battle, all-Mighty on his family and all his companions. The blasts became regular news in the government of Maliki and the American war merchants and disasters exporters. One of these dirty blasts is what happened in Tozkurmatu on Saturday 7/7/2007 which is one of many blasts which burn everything, don’t defer between the innocents and criminals and between kids and adults. These deeds are against the Quran and the Sunnah, against the behavior of Alsalaf al-Saleh and don’t have any logical or practical reference. Killing one Muslim on purpose is a big sin so what is the situation with who kills the tenths and hundreds of people?! A lot of Ayat and hadith forbidden the killing of Muslims and here are some of them: 1-Allah said “If a man kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell, to abide therein (For ever): And the wrath and the curse of Allah are upon him, and a dreadful penalty is prepared for him.” (AN-NISA, 93). 2- Narrated 'Abdullah Ibn Masoud’ : The Prophet said, "The first cases to be decided among the people (on the Day of Resurrection) will be those of blood-shed." (Sahih Albukhari and Sahih Muslem). 3- Narrated Ibn 'Umar: Allah's Apostle said, "A faithful believer remains at liberty regarding his religion unless he kills somebody unlawfully’’(Sahih al-Bukhari) 4-Narrated Abu Bakra: Allah's Apostle said:"Your blood, your properties, your honors and your skins (i.e., bodies) are as sacred to one another like the sanctity of this day of yours in this month of yours in this town of yours.’’ ( Sahih al-Bukhari and Sahih Muslim). 5- Narrated to Abdullah Ibn Amr: Allah’s Apostle said: “The vanishing of life is easier on Allah than killing believer without a reason.” (Sunan Ibn Majah) 6-Narrated to Abu Said al-Khudari and Abu Hurira: Allah’s Apostle said: ‘‘If the people of Heavens and Earth participate in killing one Muslim, Allah will throw them in the Hell (Jahannam)’’ (Sunan al-Termithi and Sahih al-targheeb wal- Tarheeb) 7-Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr: The Prophet said, "A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue and hands’ (Sahih al-Bukhari and Sahih Muslim) 8-Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) as saying: It is a serious evil for a Muslim that he should look down upon his brother Muslim. All things of a Muslim are inviolable for his brother in faith: his blood, his wealth and his honour. (Sahih Muslim) At the time we denounce these blasts and deny responsibility of them, we call all Jihadist groups to: 1- Commit to the Islamic rules according to the Holy Quraan and the Sunnah and do the best to practise the Islamic jurisprudence in Jihad related issues generally and especially those are related to people souls, wealth and honour. Allah Said ‘’ bearer of burdens can bear the burden of another’’ (al-Isra’a,15) and He said ‘Whoever works righteousness benefits his own soul; whoever works evil, it is against his own soul: nor is thy Lord ever unjust (in the least) to His Servants.’ (Fussialt, 46) 2- Declare the denial of responsibility of these crimes, denounce them, judge who made them and expose them. 3- Keep the innocent people secure and keep them away from those who don’t care about their lives. Allah said ‘And why should ye not fight in the cause of Allah and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated (and oppressed)?- Men, women, and children, whose cry is: "Our Lord! Rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors; and raise for us from thee one who will protect; and raise for us from thee one who will help!" O’ Allah Who moves the clouds and defeats the infidels, Defeat the crusaders and Safawists and all of their companions. O’ Allah guard us from their devils and kill them. O’ Allah unit our hearts and lines and Guide us that we obey You , provide us the victory and make our last days the best ones. O’ Allah don’t punish us in theis life or in the hereafter life. O’ Allah accept our martyrs and raise their degree in the paradise. O’ Allah heal our injured brothers and give our sick brothers good health and keep them on the right way. O’ Allah forgive us and our parents in the day of judgement and praise be to Allah and peace be open his apostle and all of his companions. Jihad &amp; Reform Front On Sunday 8/7/2007 The source: Jihad and Reform Front website www.rjfront.info www.reformandjihadfront.org