In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, He whom Allah, guides is rightly guided; but he whom Allah leaves to stray,- for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to the Right Way, we believe that there is no god except Allah, and that Mohammad his prophet, may Allah by upon him, O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement. Day be day, the American administration makes more terrible mistakes and add new crimes to the bloody history of America which is full of events of destroying the countries, stealing their people wealth and conspiracy against them. After they handed over Iraq to Iran with unlimited stupidity, they now want to enable the Iranians more and more by holding joint Iranian and American security committees-hiding under their claim that it contains Iraqis. They tend to official hand over to on the sight and hearing of the world. It became appropriate to say (you had the feuding and you are the foe and the governor), so the rotten administration in the Black House should know that: 1- This dirty act will increase the country's people hatred towards America because the people who are linked with the Safawist Iranian project are the sinner and garbage persons. That will increase the people insistence to return the country to its people and relieving it from all of the occupation kinds. 2- This vicious attack will detonate all the Mujahideen power who will burn the land under the feet of this age Tatar and the century Pharaohs and war criminals- with Allah power. 3- This sinner agreement has proved without any doubt the fact of the dirty conspiracy between America and Iran against the Iraqi people, not as they try to delude us by saying that we are not enemies. The Front calls all the Mujahideen in general and especially its members to increase their attacks against the Americans -the enemies of Allah – and make them know where their stupid will lead them- Allah is our supporter and they have no supporter. O Allah lead this nation that it makes glory to your religion and believers and humiliate the infidelity and infidels, O Allah who gave us the Book, moves the clouds and who defeated the infidels, defeat the crusader Americans and the Safawists and whoever with them, O Allah we ask you to protect us from their evil. O’ Allah unit our hearts and lines and guide as to your right path. O’ Allah help us and don’t help them. O’ Allah give us victory over them. O’ Allah make our end a happy one and don’t punish us in thus life or the hereafter one. O ‘Allah accept our martyrs in your paradise and raise their degrees there. O’ Allah free our prisoners and firm on their beliefs and hearts. Praise be to Allah and the prayers on his apostle and his companions. Jihad and Reform Front 27 Rajab 1428 10-8-2007 Source: Jihad and Reform Front Site www,rjfront.info www.reformandjihadfront.org