Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, He whom Allah, guides is rightly guided; but he whom Allah leaves to stray,- for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to the Right Way, we believe that there is no god except Allah, and that Mohammad his prophet, may Allah by upon him, O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement. It becomes normal to hear strange and disgusting things from the Islamic Party. It wasn't the first time when Mohsin Abdulhamid spoke after Iraq occupation and said that they established the Islamic party with bless of (Sayed Mohsin Al-Hakim)!! At that time he suggested a committee which has the seniority to speak with the Shiite reference, and then he entered the governing council which gives the occupation legitimacy and spread the destruction and put the country in the worst situation. This party's treasons didn’t stop; they deceived the Sunni people when they passed the black constitution and harmed their country as a result. It had omni decision and actions in Twafuk Front and they formed Faluja police which killed forty innocent Muslims including Mujahideen, they killed them as the sectarian militias do and they threw their bodies on the ground in a famous incident which was adopted by Bu-essa tribe senior men and in which the Americans interfered for investigation!!! The party now tries to guide tribes arming to become under their willing that they give pledge to the party, they are still trying and may Allah defeat them. It is not far away the dirty alliances they try to make with other parties; it is not strange that one of the leaders of this party betray the Sunni people as Hajim did in Falluja when he survived the Americans after they were near to be finished. Today, Ali Baban takes tens of millions to go back inside Al-Maliki government after the Sunni people chosen him to collect some blesses for them and push away some risks, but as usual he deceived them and worked for only his own benefit. After Al-Hashimi became the only one who takes decisions in the party (who pretended to represent the Sunni people), now he begs Al-Sistani who supports the occupation and never called for resistance but moreover, he Issued Fatwa prohibiting the resistance and considered it as a kind of terrorism. Sunni bleeding continues as a result such Fatwas and sectarian guides since the first day of occupation passing by Samra'a fabricated incident and until today. Al-Hashimi considered Zalmai an honest person who can be trusted to defend the Sunni people, and today he wants to put the trust in Al-Sistani as a keeper of Sunni people blood in Iraq!! That happens in the same time his followers fight each other trying to sell their share of the country to the Iranian occupation. We call the vice president and say: Tarek Al-Hashimi: To where you will take the Sunni people who trusted you? Day after day you are going deeper and deeper in the mud of sins, getting worse and worse and your sins increases day by day. The history won't forget and the curse will follow the traitor for ever. O' Allah we don’t accept what Tarek's do and what he deceives the Sunni with. Jihad &amp; Reform Front 15th of Ramadan -1427H 27-9-2007 The source: Jihad # Reform front website www.rjfront.info www.reformandjihadfront.org www.iaisite-eng.org