In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, He whom Allah, guides is rightly guided; but he whom Allah leaves to stray,- for him wilt thou find no protector to lead him to the Right Way, we believe that there is no god except Allah, and that Mohammad his prophet, may Allah by upon him, O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement. The Iraqi political activity is increasing these days and having a lot of changes which affect the competing parties and the global events. Recently the Iraqi Twafuk Front withdrew from al-Maliki crumbling government- falsely called government of national unity and should be called government of agents, thieves and criminals- after trying a losing wager with a group of war criminals and hatred group hate the country and its citizens. They said that their participation was with good intentions to collect the considered sake and prevent great deteriorative if they weren’t involved in such a government. The result of that was dramatically disappointing and was a strong justification for this government to go ahead in its many ugly crimes. Therefore the Iraqi Twafuk Front should never go back in their decision and they should commit to the real men ethics. They should not be deceived again by men and jinni devils and their own evil selves when they give them false justification for going back to the government as they did the first time. Going back now will be a terrible crime for just personal interests and will duplicate the tragedy of the Sunni people- which you actually participated in making it, was that on your willing or not. IT will be very humiliating if you becomes as that Najafi said: ‘You will return to your positions and you are belittled and humiliated’. It is now your last chance to expiate what you neglected towards Allah, your families, your nation sons and your religion. The history will never forget and the Book leaves out nothing small or great. Those who sold their religion and their families for gaining the crumbs of this life, persisted on their sin like the sinner defense minister Abdul-kadir will not escape from punishment –Allah willing- wherever they go, and tomorrow for who wait it is close. O’ Allah witness that we warned them. O Allah lead this nation that it makes glory to your religion and believers and humiliate the infidelity and infidels, O Allah who gave us the Book, moves the clouds and who defeated the infidels, defeat the crusader Americans and the Safawists and whoever with them, O Allah we ask you to protect us from their evil. O’ Allah unit our hearts and lines and guide as to your right path. O’ Allah help us and don’t help them. O’ Allah give us victory over them. O’ Allah make our end a happy one and don’t punish us in thus life or the hereafter one. O ‘Allah accept our martyrs in your paradise and raise their degrees there. O’ Allah free our prisoners and firm on their beliefs and hearts. Praise be to Allah and the prayers on his apostle and his companions. Jihad and Reform Front 1 Sha’ban 1428 14-8-2007 Source: Jihad and Reform Front Site www.rjfront.info www.reformandjihadfront.org