In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger Al-Latifiyah had witnessed painful events that defamed the jihad project in Iraq. Its main cause was elements of Al Qaeda and its victim was hero Mujahideen of the Islamic Army fighters and ordinary defenseless citizen Muslims. Our sources stresses that the events occurred in (al-Shakhat a part of al-Latifiyah) had begun when a group of the occupation soldiers with the dirty forces raided the area and arrested a number of people with a devastating overran backed with aircrafts. Instead of healing the wounds of the people of the area and mitigating the effects of the occupation soldiers raid, Al-Qaida fighters (who claim to be Mujahideen) on the next day waged an attack on the same area, resulted in the death of four unarmed citizens and an element of the Islamic Army with an insidious act and destroyed fourteen houses including furniture and properties belonging to the people of the area. Therefore the Islamic Army in Iraq Mujahedeen defended themselves and the citizens and their homes. The confrontations are still ongoing and supported by the people of the area. It is such a horrific scene that makes occupiers pleased and is painful to Muslims. The Al-Qaida has already committed a similar crime before a week in the city of Samarra north of Baghdad, as the armed group belonging to Al-Qaida attacked Mujahedeen of the Islamic Army in al-Mu'tasim and al-Assaioih areas south of the city, forcing the Mujahedeen of the Islamic Army to stop the attackers, and violent confrontations occurred between the two sides resulted in the killing of 18 elements of Al Qaeda, including Persian element. What hurts us that we weren’t expecting that after the speech of Sheikh Osama bin Laden who announced Al-Qaida incorrect acts and the need to overcome these acts and invited them to make this year the “gathering year”, as that the organization in Iraq responded particularly to the letter from al-Sheikh, and we will remain in the position of defense. Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger Dr. Ali al-Naeemi Media spokesman of the Islamic Army in Iraq Thursday 20Shawal 1428 A.H 1/11/2007 A.C