In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, ((Thou wilt not find any people who believe in Allah and the Last Day, loving those who resist Allah and His Messenger, even though they were their fathers or their sons, or their brothers, or their kindred. For such He has written Faith in their hearts, and strengthened them with a spirit from Himself. And He will admit them to Gardens beneath which Rivers flow, to dwell therein (for ever). Allah will be well pleased with them, and they with Him. They are the Party of Allah. Truly it is the Party of Allah that will achieve Felicity)). (al-Mujadala 22) Although Sunnis Mosques moan because of the insult made in front of the entire world by the Iranian occupation, we didn't see any of those Sunnis who are involved in the political operation and government jobs –under the excuse of defending Sunnis’ benefits trying to return back any of those mosques to the Sunni people. We were shocked by the announcement of closing the headquarter and radio of AMSI by the administration of “Waqf al-Sunni”!! It was the first time that happens, this will achieve the dreams of who hate Sunni people and target them, this time in the name of Sunnis! We -Jihad and Reform Front- warn from such reckless actions against the Sunnis institutions and religion and consider it a kind of giving loyalties to the others which will achieve their goals against Sunni people... We affirm that this will lead to nothing but disgrace in this world, and punishment in the judgment day and Allah knows, and ye know not. O Allah don’t torture us for that which the ignorant among us did O Allah Support who supported Muslims and destroy who disappointed them O Allah forgive our sins, support us and give us help against the oppressors Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger Jihad and Reform Front 5 Thu al-Kea’da 1428 A.H 15/11/2007 A.C Source: Jihad and Reform Front site www.rjfront.info www.reformandjihadfront.org