In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful ‘’Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers’’ Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger The most truthful speech after Allah's speech and his Prophet Mohammad ‘s -peace be upon him- is &quot;rifle to rifle&quot; speech, this one cures the same wound and yearn for the same goals. Here is a speech from the land of caliphate of Islam which was invaded by the Cross and fire worshippers to the Holy Land which will collect the corps of victory as per the most truthful human – Mohammad peace be upon him- promised us when he said: 'There is still a group in my nation that safeguards its religion, vanquishes its enemy, and is not harmed by those who attack it, and its members are the victors thanks to the strength of Allah.' It was said [to the Prophet Muhammad], 'Oh messenger of Allah, where are they and who are [these people]?' The Prophet answered: 'They are Jerusalem and its environs…'&quot; The right action in this stage is the one which has proved its reliability in the battlefield, it is Jihad and resistance by relying on Allah then on the self power and the promise of victory by Allah to his worshiper' believers in the Quran and the Sunna of his Messenger -peace be upon him-. How many sincere deeds in the battlefield were lost by false promises from the leaders? all of us remember the long history which al-Aqsa Mosque cause passed through since the British Crusader occupation for the Prophet Masra’a and how they have handed over Palestine to the Jews according to their policy aligned with their saying (slow but sure). We know how the Arabs leaders were always deceived by the Britain false promises while they were always honest in their promises to the Jewish friends. We always say how the Muslims were deceived in Palestine and stopped the 1936 revolution then we were deceived again and believed the lie of Inkath army which should have entered Palestine in 1948 (an army of volunteers who were keen to the martyrdom but had no weapons or funding)?, we saw how our soldiers were in the coldest days of winter without blankets or even without clothes and they were semi-naked -as ‘Fawzi Qawuqji’ the commander of the Salvation (Inkath) Army reported. Then the Arab armies entered the liberation game and missed the initial successes in the truce farces, after that there were wars for naive and cheap goals, and the goals were to only move the delusion peace process forward not to liberate the land. All of you know this long history, but we want to demonstrate some important issue, that today we live in a new age of public resistance age or the age of Mujahideen groups as we were told by the Prophet of Allah (peace be upon him) which is that the nation will be independent in its decisions where these decisions will come only from its own willing away from outside influence. The Iraqi as well as Palestinian resistance achieved more than what was achieved by all the official Arabian armies against the occupation forces. We -in the resistance today- have the willing which isn’t found in all the Arabic armies, our weapon is being designed and manufactured by our hands while the rust is eating the weapons of Arabs armies, our leaders minds which are enlightened by the guidance of the Islamic legitimate law make our jihad policies not as Arab military which the foreign dictations control. The nation today is yearning to find a new meaning, therefore we see the People's interaction with the Mujahideen and their groups has returned the spirit of the Arab street, we had missed a statesman who leads his people in prayer as brother Ismail Haniya is doing, we missed a mother who encouraged her sons to fight with patiently and courage which is rarely found in men, as Palestine khansa' (Um Nethal) did, and as Iraq and Fallujah khansa', (Um Ahmad) did. The Arabic street has missed the Men children who flames people revolution like what Mohammad Durra did in Palestine. We have good news for you that the second generation of our kids had grown up and became like lions and that he Islamic Resistance project is increasing day by day, stating an ambitious future not like the official project which the nation's causes in Palestine, Iraq, Somalia and others. There the merchants are selling the nation cause in the political market, and every one of them made all his effort and gave abdication to gain its price, there you will find the cause charged against an unknown. The occupation is not anymore an occupation, but ‘peace-keeping forces’ to secure people while they cannot secure themselves ! , the offender disappeared and the victim turned to the torturer -in their eye- who spread the chaos in the region. It is one of our main jihadist project principles that we don’t completely drop any portion of the nation, but to combine all the components of the nation under only one condition: that all of these project should come behind this project because this project proved that it is the most sincere and true one, it is the project which will return back to us our true position among the nations. Allah is the supporter of the steadfast Mujahedeen. Dr. Ibrahim al-Shammary The official spokesman of The Islamic Army in Iraq 8 Thee al-Heja 1428 A.H 18/12/2007 A.C