In the name of Allah, the most gracious, the most merciful. Statement regarding Norway attitude towards Mullah Krikar Praise be to Allah, weak people and believers supporter, the most honoured and the most generous. Peace and Prayers be upon Mohammed, the prophet of mercy and many greetings for him and his family. Allah said: ''…but if they seek your aid in religion, it is your duty to help them, except against a people with whom ye have a treaty of mutual alliance. And (remember) Allah seeth all that ye do.'' [Al-Anfal,72] Europe attack against Islam and the humanity messenger and great survivor prophet Mohammed –peace be upon him- continues after trying to humiliate him personally. Today, Norway government takes the decision to banish Sheikh Fateh Krikar, such a decision shows clearly the open Crusader spirit in dealing with Muslims either scholars or normal persons. The JR front seriously watches what happens and wants to complain and show its deep worry about this action against Sheikh Krikar who has been living there legally for a long time and never made a crime or harmed anyone. The JR front calls all Muslims particularly and human rights defenders in general to take an action towards that…how come that a man who never did bad thing will be derived away the country? He never rebelled against the regime except the former regime in Iraq for which the land was burnt and invaded and its people were destroyed! Moreover, the head of that regime was hanged in a terrible scene all the world and human rights organizations denounced! Do the Norwegians want to hand over Sheikh Krikar to have the same end of the one he was opposing while the other former opposes who changed intro agents for the occupiers are considered heroes ? It is only pure Muslims who get these unfair dealing! Here we collect all the forces of the Muslims whatever governments, organizations, and notable persons and ask them to take an action which gets our prestige back before this unfair covers the whole nation. In the same time, we call all the good people who still fight human rights attackers to take an action and stop that bad thing. If this decision from Norway government is not revised, we will call for a wide boycott for their goods and not to deal with them. This issue- if not treated carefully- will end up with a real pain for Norway government and they will repent of their decision. We are not only saying words without real actions on the ground. Allah witnesses that! JR Front 3rd of Sacrifice Feast 1428H 20-12-2007 source: Jihad and Reform Front Site www.rjfront.info