In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful Clarification about targeting so-called ''the Iraqi forces'' ''Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers'' By Allah support only, the third part of ''Baghdad Sniper'' was released in Eid al-Fitr. It was a gift from the Central Media department in the IAI to all the Muslims. One of the goals of that release was to dispel the illusion the enemies made around themselves, they thought that jihadist operations would decrease and the occupation and government forces would control Baghdad and secure their men there, that release was the real reply on all of that. Because of that release included views of targeting what is so-called ''the Iraqi forces'', a lot of arguments came up and some questions rose about if those deeds would violate the IAI principles which all the people know. Here –by the help of Allah-we will clarify this issue to our people in Iraq in particular and the Muslims in general: First of all, it is well known that the most important part of the army and the police is to protect the people, secure their benefits and to defend the country against any outside attack, but all the people also know that the army and police in our country are only the protective shield of the occupation forces and the strike-hand for it against the Mujahideen. They were the ones who started the war against the Sunni people and the Mujahideen especially in Baghdad, so we had no other choice but to defend ourselves and block the attack. Our film was entitled by (Baghdad Sniper “JUBA”), that means the operations viewed took place only in Baghdad. It is not secret what these ''Iraqi forces'' made of killing, displacement, torture, assault, theft and grabbing in Sunni areas even they were near to erase the Sunni identity of Baghdad, but Allah stopped them, and enabled the Mujahideen to kill them- Praise be to him. Most of those forces in Baghdad are from the Iranians who planned and agreed on uprooting Sunni people from Baghdad. These criminal forces were storming the Sunni areas to take its people weapons and arrest the youth, they left only the women and children in order to give Dajjal “so-called Mahdi” army militias and Ghader “so called Bader” organization the opportunity to enter these areas and to do whatever they want to do, then after two days these youth people were found in Baghdad streets as unidentified bodies with corpses eyes and bullets holes in their heads. The IAI wants to remind people of the blessed role it played in Baghdad fate battle when the Iranian militias launched bloody attacks on Baghdad and the IAI heroes were blocking them, standing among their families and in their Mosques fighting to defend their Sunni people and families. They prevented them from the evil of enemies by providing those weapons, equipment and relief and by bringing up their morals. That time, the leadership of the IAI took an oath not to leave Baghdad till the victory and waited for Allah support which He promised the believers. On the basis of this fact, we want to clarify that the views of targeting those ''Iraqis&quot; did not appear in part I and II of ''Baghdad Sniper'' because the war was initially with the Americans and that time the Iranian militias attacks weren't as they are now, but when these crimes occurred, particularly in the period between releasing the second and third part, it became a must and main part to us to stop them. O' Allah give the Mujahideen the victory and unit their ranks on what You are satisfied with. O' Allah make their hands steady on the weapons that they hit the target and make their inner as well as outer realties good and pure. O' Allah give them the victory over the Americans and the safawists and their companions. O' Allah accept their martyrs and put them in as high place of Paradise. O' Allah survive our prisoners; You are the most powerful and the most honourable. Praise be to Allah, peace and prayers on His messenger, prophet Mohammed, his family and companions. Dr. Ali al-Naeemi Media spokesman of the IAI. 26/12/2007