A message from the Islamic Army in Iraq leader\ Bush and Sarkozy … Political alliance or wealth and power sharing? In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah and best prayers and peace upon his messenger prophet Mohammed, his family, and companions. It became clear for anyone watching the events the status which the USA lives today over various levels, especially that one of its teen Bush! It is not strange that Bush shows to his lovers and defenders that he is interested in the Palestinian cause in the last five minutes of his period! American presidents used to look at the Palestinian cause in the time-out period to add some touches help and support the Jews. Recently, runt Bush visited the area to show the optimum support to Israelis and to do his best to make the Palestinian tragedy longer and to steal their rights. Regarding Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Sudan, there it is a playground and a place of clearing the accounts. The most important dimensions of this movement are: First: the religious dimension: Bush counts serving the Jews the most important religious obligations, starts and ends with it and what in between is for it. The world will never forget those words which clearly showed the historical crimes of this president when he stated that his war on Iraq and Afghanistan is a ‘Holy crusade war’ and it would last for a long time. The Jews still dream of ‘Great Israel’ which became behind the insulator wall as a human existence, but the hegemony remains and the influence continue as stated in their religious political believes. Actually this was one of the main goals of the occupation of Iraq and the Jewish rabbis issued a legal opinion that Iraq is a part of the ‘Great Israel’ since the first days of the occupation. They asked the Jewish soldiers in the American and British armies in Iraq (2000 Jewish troops) to pray whenever they setup a tent or build a structure on Iraq land especially west of the Euphrates river. Today Bush seeks hardly to achieve one of the Jewish dreams of establishing Jewish religious state in Palestine, and to preserve a continuous national security for Israel by keeping the peoples of the region in general and the Iraqis and Palestinians in particularly suffering. Second: political and strategic dimension: After it became clear that the occupation forces in Iraq, Palestine, Afghanistan and Somalia are in their way to (excellent fail), it seems that it is ended militarily, and nearly politically, because Bush administration was not and won’t be able to afford peace to Iraq, also Olmert was not and will not be able to protect his “chosen people!!” from rockets and mortar shells which became raining on them in a very intensive way, and neither this nor that servant was able to stop Jihad and resistance project. The only thing seen is the expansion of war area day by day in all the occupied countries starting with Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan and not ending with Somalia, adding to this, the Jewish conviction that America is not serious in attacking Iran and that it couldn’t solve Lebanese crisis and also failed to reconcile between the Iraqi sects. Therefore, the Zionism government now looks for other options and this trip to the area came to save what can be saved from the wreckage of degraded policy in a maze called “Road Map”. One of the objectives of this trip is saving the crumbling government of Maliki after Maliki failed to carry out 'Baghdad security plan' which was actually &quot;Maliki security plan', imposing providing support to this government at the other governments in the area. That support will definitely continue after this trip to make the American master happy. Some of these countries hurried up to give scarifies by arresting the innocents for any suspicion, leaving their islands and some of their decisions in the hand of Iran, that happened in Abu Dhabi, the place which Bush stated the speech and instructions from. As the area politicians are scared of Iran, and Bush came to calm them down (those who forget the intimate relationship between America and Iran which participated in the occupation of two large countries: Iraq and Afghanistan. Third: Security and military dimension: This trip came to guarantee the long-term presence and the continued support of the American military which is occupying all the countries in the region, to raise the feeling of Bush soldiers that they are moving towards their strategy goals, to collect the efforts of all area countries against their peoples by exerting more pressure on them, arresting and fighting anyone wants to stand in the way of the American damned project under the false banner of fighting terrorism, to stop any sort of thinking in building national force to defend the religion, land, holy places, and to win contracts in an astronomical numbers for selling the American military scrap or a sophisticated weapons under the condition that it is run by American experts with a enormous salaries, here the question arises: If Bush gone and America gone who will be the protector? Fourth: the social and cultural dimension: Bush asked his officials to give the chance for those ladies walking in the shoes of Huda al-Sha'rawi and Nawal al-Saadawi to corrupt the country and its people. Bush men did not find any one except that poor woman to present him and arrange his papers, and to be another Nawal. One of the goals of this trip is supporting the rot liberal groups and the American Islam against pure (Radical) Islam. Fifth: the economic dimension: This trip came with economic flavor, with oil and natural gas taste, and wrapped with the American dollar because the dollar is in its way to drop to the level of the Lebanese pound and the Iraqi dinar even after a while. Linking the Gulf economy with the dollar is very important; the flow of oil into the veins of the American market to control the world more and more is the main interest of the American politicians. Therefore, the American companies got major and long-term contracts in the region. In the case of Iraq, it is quite different, because here everything is going to the Americans. The traitors sold the country and put its economy for next decades in the hand of the occupiers against nothing according to the so-called “Oil and Gas law”. The other face of this trip is the trip of the soft ally Sarkozy, who showed –without any confusion or lies- to the whole world the real policy of the great countries: it is money, companies' benefits and economic domination. After they became independent in the political decision, and the confidence of the military force became stable, he has no time to waste with his girlfriend in the palaces of Paris but he had converted into another 'treasures Alibaba', another Ibn Battuta who travels everywhere but not for the rights of the world, but for money wherever it is. He started from the west and won't end with the east to make economic, security and military contracts. It is like a dream of bringing the Europeans control and campaigns era back but in a smart and modern way. Sarkozy came to take the wealth of this weak region against some technology which became old and antique in his country covering it with shiny names and to entertain and employ those unemployed who have certificates and qualifications in France in these huge projects. Sarkozy started talking about the countries of the region in very sad scene, and almost crying at it with crocodile tears; that it has the right to use peaceful nuclear energy fearing of the day the region will run out of oil and gas after fifty years!!! He neglected on purpose to apologize for the real owners of the money from the poor nations which were oppressed by the Europeans, sure because he has no relation with the millions that were stolen in Algeria and other countries! One of the goals of his trip is to save 'Airbus' from successive losses and adjust its status with precious selling contracts. No doubt that energy contracts and the security of Israel is on the top of Sarkozy priorities, this trip to the region came simultaneously with Bush's trip. Both of them showed the clever dealing, support to each other as they will share what remains of wealth and power. For what was mentioned above the trip was planned and the alliances made. Now they forgot the evil axis and word of darkness and underdeveloped countries and replaced it by deals of tens or hundreds of billions, but tactically not strategically. On this occasion, we remind the Islamic nation in general and especially the Arab nation of their duties especially the following: 1. Return to Allah and adherence to the true Islamic project which combines between the nativity and the innovation neither east nor west and preserving this project continuity to maintain the religion necessities, to get the interests of people and the country and to remove the scourge and corruption at all levels. 2. Taking care of the deceiving enemies who play on the contradictions and disagreements in the region to maintain their domination, hegemony and influence. We should invest the intersection of interests and the disagreements of the enemies among themselves to the benefit of the nation, especially the serious and great ones. 3. Maintaining the nation project of resistance and jihad and strengthening it by all means, because it is the only hope after Allah and his strength to protect the nation fever. 4. Working hard to achieve the independence of the nation decision and collect its full sovereignty without any Western or Eastern inference. 5. Making the best investment of the nation’s moral, human and material wealth, preventing it from being a source of pain, destruction, deprivation to the nation, and the source of hope, strength, prosperity and progress to the enemies, those who will convert it the treacherous bullets in the heart of the nation. 6. Establishing all communication methods in the nation at all levels, consultation, giving the advices, integration, cooperation in righteousness and piety and the adoption of major projects without neglecting the small projects. 7. Taking into consideration all the ends of events, behaving and working within deliberate strategies and according to a clear visions and in advance prepared plans so as not to keep the nation in the blown of the wind without power. O Allah Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith. O Allah don’t make our life troubled and miserable and don’t give our enemies the opportunity to rejoice at our misfortune. O Allah make us fear of you that we never make sins and make us obey you that we guarantee Your paradise. O Allah give us the assurance that we don’t care about the difficulties on the way. O Allah make our enjoyment of our ears, eyes, and power permanent as along as we are alive. O Allah enable us to take revenge from those who trespass us and make us victorious upon our enemies. O Allah don’t make the difficulties in our religion and don’t make our highest target this life and don’t make it the most knowledge we have. O Allah don’t give our enemies the power to torture us because of our sins. O Allah Bestow on us endurance and make our foothold sure and give us help against those who reject faith. O Allah have mercy upon our martyrs, free our prisoners, heal our injured people, cure our patients, unit our hearts and ranks and make our word one word at your prophet path. Finally, praise be to Allah and Peace and prayers upon his messenger and all of his followers. Download the statement in Dr. Ali al-N'aimi voice http://www.fileflyer.com/view/70ZMwBO Wednesday 8 Muharam 1429 16-1-2008