In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, Allah says: ((O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement.)) Markets, public areas and populated areas have become a scene of explosions and an open field to dignify human value in al-Maliki government under the weight of freedom and democracy of America. At the time when America sleeps deeply and dreams with achieving the alleged security, criminal explosions Yesterday shook parts of the country (the Great crime in al-Zndjeli area in Mosul), and today –Friday- a crime in al-Ghazel market in the heart of the capital, Baghdad, that claimed more than a hundred dead and wounded. Then few spies from the Safawi police department stated that the bomber was a woman to hide their crimes, knowing most people knew about the recent bombing in same market -al-Ghazel- which was executed by the an Iranian gang that had infiltrated under the umbrella of the Iranian spies in the security forces. The Jihad and Reform front strongly condemns these criminal acts, that are sponsored by the occupation and its betrayal government which seeks for the despotic abuse of authority, away from the needs of people and the situated needs of decent living, going further the occupation government continues in its lies on the official and semi-official coverage on itself and partners who stole the country's wealth, that led them to burn the administration building of the Central Bank to cover the crime, however their resemblance is as who wants to hide the sun with the sieve, so curse them with shame and disgrace in this life and in the afterlife. We condemn these criminal explosions and sabotage acts, and we call upon all jihadist groups to: 1 - Revenge on those who serve in these criminal operations. 2 - Declaration of innocence, resentment and condemnation of who’s responsible. 3 - Seek with all means to maintain the security of people and to stop any criminal who would threatens the fate of vulnerable innocent people, Allah says: ((And why should ye not fight in the cause of Allah and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated (and oppressed)?- Men, women, and children, whose cry is: &quot;Our Lord! Rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors; and raise for us from thee one who will protect; and raise for us from thee one who will help!&quot;)) O Allah Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith; Americans, Safavids and Peshmergas. O Allah don’t make our life troubled and miserable and don’t give our enemies the opportunity to rejoice at our misfortune. O Allah make us fear you that we never make sins and make us obey you that we guarantee Your paradise. O Allah give us the assurance that we don’t care about the difficulties on the way. O Allah make our enjoyment of our ears, eyes, and power permanent as along as we are alive. O Allah enable us to take revenge from those who trespass us and make us victorious upon our enemies. O Allah don’t make the difficulties in our religion and don’t make life our highest target and don’t make it the most knowledge we have. O Allah don’t give our enemies the power to torture us because of our sins. O Allah strengthen our foothold and give us shelter against those who reject faith. O Allah have mercy upon our martyrs, free our prisoners, heal our injured people, cure our patients, unite our hearts and ranks and lead us to right path, the path of our beloved prophet p.b.u.h. Finally, praise be to Allah and Peace and prayers upon his messenger and all of his followers Jihad and Reform Front Friday 25/1/1429 A.H 2/2/2008