In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, Allah says: ((O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement.)) Former Prime Minister of the sectarian Government Ibrahim al-Jaafari claimed in an interview with Al-Sharkya Channel on 29/1/2008, that he met factions of the Iraqi resistance, this claim was repeated often by many figures that are far from the resistance and rather despite it, Ibrahim is an extremist who influenced sectarian violence and many suffered under his leadership. He is still implying that resistance is terrorism, impeached on its truthiness and collaborating with the occupation forces in chasing its leaders, Iyad Allawi and many others before him followed the same path. And the Jihad and Reform Front strongly denies and confirms the falseness of this claim and is far from the truth; in addition that these repeated allegations indicate the feasibility of the resistance project, it is the influential force in the Iraqi arena and it is the important and essential figure in the political map of Iraq. O Allah Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith; Americans, Safavids and Peshmergas. O Allah don’t make our life troubled and miserable and don’t give our enemies the opportunity to rejoice at our misfortune. O Allah make us fear you that we never make sins and make us obey you that we guarantee Your paradise. O Allah give us the assurance that we don’t care about the difficulties on the way. O Allah make our enjoyment of our ears, eyes, and power permanent as along as we are alive. O Allah enable us to take revenge from those who trespass us and make us victorious upon our enemies. O Allah don’t make the difficulties in our religion and don’t make life our highest target and don’t make it the most knowledge we have. O Allah don’t give our enemies the power to torture us because of our sins. O Allah strengthen our foothold and give us shelter against those who reject faith. O Allah have mercy upon our martyrs, free our prisoners, heal our injured people, cure our patients, unite our hearts and ranks and lead us to right path, the path of our beloved prophet p.b.u.h. Finally, praise be to Allah and Peace and prayers upon his messenger and all of his followers Jihad and Reform Front Friday 24/1/1429 A.H 1/2/2008