In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger, Allah says: ((O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement.)) Bombings have become a standard routine in the so-called Maliki government and under the spears of Americans the warlords and exporters of disasters, and from these operations the latest is in the province of Nineveh in al-Zndjeli neighborhood on Wednesday 15 1429 A.H which is 23/1/2008, that killed hundreds of people in the stricken area. The Jihad and Reform Front strongly condemns these criminal acts that are tied to the occupation directly or indirectly through their servants; the Peshmergas militias exploits the Mujahedeen while they’re busy fighting the Americans and their associates to punish this city for its withstand against the expansionist ambitions, but the promise of hell is for all who spill innocent Muslim blood, Allah says ((If a man kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell, to abide therein (For ever): And the wrath and the curse of Allah are upon him, and a dreadful penalty is prepared for him)), Ibn Kathere said: “this is severe threat for who did this great sin, which is corrections with the polytheism in many places in the book of Allah”. And what was proved in the Sahehen (the Bukhary and Muslim Hadith scientists) what the prophet Mohammad said [First thing that Allah judge people in the judgment day is the blood], In Sunan al-Trmethey (Hadith scientist) Prophet Mohammad said [the disappearance of the world is better for Allah from killing a Muslim man],,, In Tirmidhi from Abu Said al-Kudary and Abu-Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah said: [if the people of the sky and the people of the earth helped each other in killing a believer, Allah sent them all to hell] We condemn these Criminal Acts and call all the jihad groups to do the following: 1 - Revenge on those who serve in these criminal operations. 2 - Declaration of innocence, resentment and condemnation of who’s responsible. 3 - Seek with all means to maintain the security of people and to stop any criminal who would threatens the fate of vulnerable innocent people, Allah says: ((And why should ye not fight in the cause of Allah and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated (and oppressed)?- Men, women, and children, whose cry is: &quot;Our Lord! Rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors; and raise for us from thee one who will protect; and raise for us from thee one who will help!&quot;)) O Allah Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith; Americans, Safavids and Peshmergas. O Allah don’t make our life troubled and miserable and don’t give our enemies the opportunity to rejoice at our misfortune. O Allah make us fear you that we never make sins and make us obey you that we guarantee Your paradise. O Allah give us the assurance that we don’t care about the difficulties on the way. O Allah make our enjoyment of our ears, eyes, and power permanent as along as we are alive. O Allah enable us to take revenge from those who trespass us and make us victorious upon our enemies. O Allah don’t make the difficulties in our religion and don’t make life our highest target and don’t make it the most knowledge we have. O Allah don’t give our enemies the power to torture us because of our sins. O Allah strengthen our foothold and give us shelter against those who reject faith. O Allah have mercy upon our martyrs, free our prisoners, heal our injured people, cure our patients, unite our hearts and ranks and lead us to right path, the path of our beloved prophet p.b.u.h. Finally, praise be to Allah and Peace and prayers upon his messenger and all of his followers Jihad and Reform Front Friday 17/1/1429 A.H 25/1/2008