IAI\ to our families in Mosul: Endure, outdo all others in endurance, be ready, and prepare yourselves In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Statement\ to our families in Mosul: Endure, outdo all others in endurance, be ready, and prepare yourselves. Allah says: ((O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: He that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievement.)) Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger The occupation and its government continues’ in the heinous crimes against the Sunnis in general and the defenders of the religion, the country and its people from them in particular, and Fallujah wasn't the first victims and Mosul isn't the last. The series of mass destruction began since the occupation of Iraq in 2003 and we are now in the year 2008, and the horrific scenes of terrorist operations of the occupation and its government censure. And while they are losing the war heavily, they are still gathering their injured and recruit the foolish, bandits and mercenaries, using complete distortion of lies to justify the killing and destruction of Sunnis and their homes. At the same time (al-Maliki) threatens to destroy the city of Mosul and to kill its resistors along with their families and many others, American forces say that the process might take a year!!!, did the series of destruction across Iraq by the occupation end so that Mosul is that last operation of them all?!! Could tragedies end with the occupation remains? And the world saw the Safawi government, Peshmergas criminal militias and their masters, the Americans, involved in killing hundreds of Zndjeli sons that was the first step to attack Mosul, as happened in the arsons events of Samarra but Allah s.w Almighty discountenance them all. And with the difficult situation that this country and its people are going through, and because of the disagreements that can be mentioned in Iraq and especially what is happening between al-Qaida organization and the Islamic army in deferent areas, reached to north Iraq, the Islamic army group choose passing all the ways to stop the blood of people and Mujahedeen till the sedition owners and their way become known, and form these steps the announcement of the separation of Mosul sector from the group to stop the excuses even if it is small or not mentioned, just in the goal of stopping the blood, but al-Qaida continued in targeting mujahedeen in this sector, assassinating our brother the hero 'Abu-Fatema' and attacked our brother 'Abu-Ibrahim' in his house and killed him in front of his family and children without any consideration for Islam, blood or house forbidders. And they started setting up ambushes to attack mujahedeen instead of attacking enemy and occupation, all these trespasses were supported by Mr. Abu Omer in his statements, and from this what he said in his last speech, when he lied as usual about the Islamic army group, and said that Abu-Azzam is the vice-leader of the group and in this he lied a lie that is unbelievable, especially after group showed clearly its situation toward this subject in its disapprove on al-Arabia channel falseness and hypocrisy, and in regards to his speech: (the Islamic army is fighting side by side with the Cross carrier) is also a lie and a myth that is untrue to any reasonable person - with Allah Praise-, because the Islamic army operations are clear like the sun and Abu-Omer is unknown person and status, and the group operations against only the American forces in the year (2006-2007) reached up to (14500) operation, and because of the insignificance of so-called Abu-Omer we preferred not to reply in order to adherence on Allah s.w order on his worshipers to turn away from the vain, Allah says: ((And when they hear vain talk, they turn away there from and say: &quot;To us our deeds, and to you yours; peace be to you: we seek not the ignorant.&quot;)), and says: ((Who avoid vain talk;)), and we remind Abu-Omer (whoever he maybe is) about the judgment day, Allah says: ((&quot;The Day whereon neither wealth nor sons will avail, &quot;But only he (will prosper) that brings to Allah a sound heart;)), ((The Day that (all) things secret will be tested, (Man) will have no power, and no helper.)) And says: ((Do they not think that they will be called to account?- On a Mighty Day, A Day when (all) mankind will stand before the Lord of the Worlds?)), The Messenger of Allah (peace be upon him) said: Whoever argues while knowingly defending falsehood, will continue to be under Allah's anger until he abstains. and whoever says about a believer, that which is not in him Allah will house him in a mill of the people of the fire of Jahannam until he leaves off what he said ...&quot;, the prophet (peace be upon him ) said: 'O you who are Muslims by tongue and faith has not penetrated your hearts! Do not harm Muslims nor pursue their imperfections, for whoever pursues the imperfections of his Muslim brother, Allah will pursue his imperfection and whosoever Allah pursues his imperfection, He will disgrace him.) ' He also stressed the sacredness of Muslim life when he said, 'Indeed, the termination of this world is of lesser importance to Allah than the killing of a Muslim man.' (At-Tirmithi) And after all the Mujahedeen became certain that Al-Qaida intention is to assassinate the mujahedeen and that the tendentious propaganda by al-Qaeda had no impact on the balance of truth, the heroes in Mosul sector referred to return to their shelters in the Islamic Army of start again in fighting the enemies of Allah, as their statement, which was published on 24/2/2008, and the group welcomes the return of the brothers, and advise them and all the mujahedeen with the following: • Observance in the Quran and Sunnah within the method of the nation ascendants, and hanging on reforming the intention which is the head of the religion, by it the accommodation comes and without it the abandon occurs, Allah says: ((If any do wish for the transitory things (of this life), We readily grant them - such things as We will, to such person as We will: in the end have We provided Hell for them: they will burn therein, disgraced and rejected. Those who do wish for the (things of) the Hereafter, and strive therefore with all due striving, and have Faith,- they are the ones whose striving is acceptable (to Allah..)), From 'Umar Ibn Al Khattab, who said : I heard the Prophet of Allah (peace be upon him) say : &quot;Actions are but by intentions and every man shall have but that which he intended. Thus he whose migration was for Allah and His messenger, his migration was for Allah and His messenger, and he whose migration was to achieve some worldly benefit or to take some woman in marriage, his migration was for that for which he migrated.&quot; And the final surviving and gaining the heaven does not occur without the true faith and work in the way of Allah, Allah says: (( Say: &quot;I am but a man like yourselves, (but) the inspiration has come to me, that your Allah is one Allah. Whoever expects to meet his Lord, let him work righteousness, and, in the worship of his Lord, admit no one as partner.)) And the truthiness confirms in the war, because anyone can be killed there, and who loses his life don't have another one, so who spoils the conclusion has no other conclusions to correct. • Subservience in worshiping Allah, because the strength and the fate is on his hand only, so it is forbidden to rely on a power or a group, and also it is forbidden to surrender whatever the situation is bad, Allah says: ((And do thou be patient, for thy patience is but from Allah. nor grieve over them: and distress not thyself because of their plots.)) • Invest all energies to stop against the enemies from the Americans, Safvids and Peshmerga forces, and do not waste any legal effort that helps in this battle. With taking the reference from the people of science, wisdom and experience and scholars in all disciplines and they are many in your city. • Make every energies and efforts to gather people on the truthiness, preservation of the Islamic brotherhood and its rights, and behave in a good moral (honesty and loyalty), and be far from the imperfections, bickering and obscenity and avoid vice ethics (lying and treachery). &quot;Don't hate one another, don't envy one another don't sell over the sale to another, don't dispute with one another and don't back-bite one another. The servants of Allah are brethren to one another.&quot; • Into account the priorities of work and focus on the target and not dispersing vision, and concern fighting the enemies of Allah, and only defend the invaders from al-Qaeda, the Prophet of Allah (peace be upon him) says: whoever gathers all the worries he has into one worry: The worry of return (unto his Lord) Allah will take care of the rest of his cares----Whoever lets the cares of this worldly life distract him from the ultimate care, Allah will not care about him or about his meeting with Him. (Sahih al-jami': 6189) • Concentrating on leading people to religion side by side with Jihad, Allah says: ((but enough is thy Lord to guide and to help.)), because this ancient city deserves continues effort in all the battles. Work with all legitimate means to protect people, their blood, property and honor and let Mosul your stronghold and its people your supporters. We remind all the people to fear Allah on their acts and saying, and not to risk their religion for a non mentioned payment, Allah says: ((O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and let every soul look to what (provision) He has sent forth for the morrow. Yea, fear Allah. for Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do.)), prophet Mohammad said: (That one will not enter paradise whose neighbor is not secure against his mischief.), On the authority of Abdullah bin Amr bin Al Aas who said: The prophet ( peace be upon him ) said: &quot;A Muslim is a person who does not harm another Muslim with his tongue or with his hands&quot;, and (PBUH) said: &quot;a true Muhajir is one, who leaves everything that God has disapproved.&quot; To our people in Mosul city: Endure, outdo all others in endurance, be ready, and prepare your weapons to stop the aggression on your city, Allah says: ((And obey Allah and His Messenger. And fall into no disputes, lest ye lose heart and your power depart; and be patient and persevering: For Allah is with those who patiently persevere.)), and support your brothers, mujahedeen, who defend you, because they are from you and you are from them. O Allah Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith Americans, Safavids. O Allah don't make our life troubled and miserable and don't give our enemies the opportunity to rejoice at our misfortune. O Allah make us fear of you that we never make sins and make us obey you that we guarantee Your paradise. O Allah give us the assurance that we don't care about the difficulties on the way. O Allah make our enjoyment of our ears, eyes, and power permanent as long as we are alive. O Allah enable us to take revenge from those who trespass us and make us victorious upon our enemies. O Allah don't make the difficulties in our religion and don't make our highest target this life and don't make it the most knowledge we have. O Allah don't give our enemies the power to torture us because of our sins. O Allah Bestow on us endurance and make our foothold sure and give us help against those who reject faith. O Allah have mercy upon our martyrs, free our prisoners, heal our injured people, cure our patients, unite our hearts and ranks and make our word one word at your prophet path. Finally, praise be to Allah and Peace and prayers upon his messenger and all of his followers. The Islamic Army in Iraq Wednesday 27, Sufar, 1429 5/3/2008