In the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful Statement \ Four to supplement the Four or Forty? Praise be to Allah s.w, the one who accomplishes victory for the believers against their enemies and their subordinates, and opened the doors of heaven with great blessings and tender types, which brought together the hearts of people of faith in the Ummah to pursue Jihad, which led the Mujahedeen to attack with aggression and prevented the enemies agenda of all to cast its evil on the land, let the truth prevail above all erroneous, even if the non-believers reject it. Allah s.w have shaken the giants of power, humiliated them, and shown the righteous people the strength to stop any evil force to evolve in the land of pure, and the best prayer to the absolute leader Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him), the leader of Martyrs and his family and whoever has followed until the day of judgment, there after: Despite the enormous efforts made by the American Administration using countless financial support, guiding the media whether Arabic or Farsi - directly and or indirectly, all to cover up the massive losses in Iraq, and followed all ways to misinform and propagate to form a picture of how Iraq is secure, albeit at the expense of blood and body parts and mass destruction to the people of the country. America is a researcher for success in straw piles of lies, defeats, and failures. Even if an achievement based on illusions, it is amplified to the media and mobilizes space that makes it seem like a real achievement, quickly faded by sparking a series of Explosions that could not hide neither the claims, the picture does not tell lies, as they say. Having followed the American Administration since the early days of the war various ways to hide the recognition to the real numbers of deaths, what was counted mainly: 1 - The number of dead does not include any, but Americans who have American citizenships exclusively. 2 - Not including soldiers who joined by campaigns that are promised to stay in America. 3 - Not including of the mercenaries killed at whatever number. 4 - Not including the many dead security contractors and all those who do not wear military uniform. 5 - Dumping the bodies in lakes, such as Lake Tharthar and Habbaniyah. 6 - Pressure on the media not to show the loss of Americans, or even partially for not having it validated by independent sources, the closure of sites on the World Wide Web and Prosecuting owners and hosting companies. However, these actions did not benefit nor was it a success, it only means that their work has failed, all efforts to shake Jihad operations and cover it were overthrown due to the shine of operations like the sun with impressive results, which brought great losses to America and its agents, they were defeated, respectively, thanks to Allah s.w for planting the will and strength in Martyrs. Today, Allah s.w with his generosity have guided the lions of Islam to complete the missing puzzle in supplying the shortage of the official report in regards to their death counts, which in reality it is up to forty thousand not four thousand, indeed it’s a bad day for them, by realistic figures, the number of dead Americans is closer to forty thousand not four thousand with an assured fact and no doubts. We would like to celebrate this day by believing in our strength given by Allah s.w and casted our will to prevent the enemies of the righteous from taking our nation and misguiding our people in general, and especially the Mujahedeen, we remind all the Mujahedeen: 1 – Honesty and take shelter in the supreme Almighty Allah s.w, pray for blessings and bow to Allah s.w and thank Allah s.w for what has been achieved in victories that are one after another, be Compassionate and understanding and never lose trust in Allah s.w and pray for the Ummah in general to achieve total victory . 2 - Focus on the jihadist military action and present it with good intentions, furthermore, the MEDIA is considered half of the battle, because jihad is our strategy. 3 – Patience is a must, and ignore biased propaganda and diabolical rumors created by your enemies to prevent you from achieving one of the highest standard of your religion. Praise be to Allah s.w in concluding this nation with strength, will, and wisdom to surpass our enemies and defeat the Satanists from spreading diseases and sickness. Bless us with the ability to take revenge on those who created and help create massacre the believers. You who is not weakened by the power of Tyrants and for whom the destruction of rebellious kings that are no great matter we ask you to make the snare of he who plots against us to be the cause of their own destruction And the plot of who plots against us to rebound upon them And cause who dug a hole for us to fall in it And whoever sets up for us the net of deception. A God-hearts, and united in our words, the aegis of obedience, refreshed and make us thankful, and the best in all matters, Jewish minimum of shame and agony of the afterlife, and we raised not affect us, and accept our martyrs to the highest grades in the manifestation, lifting our prisoners and wounded and forgive our patients to all Muslims, and another prayer Praise be to Allah, Lord of the Worlds and blessings of Allah s.w and peace upon our Prophet Muhammad and his family and companions. Islamic Army in Iraq 24-3-2008