In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Praise be to Allah, He who made victorious of the believers, He showed the lost people their way and reminded who forgot him about his way, he warned the spoilers and destroyed the unbelievers. He punished after long time of patient towards arrogance. He called his slaves to come back to his way and admit his ownership but they ignored him and didn’t answer his call so he torched them against their rebel then they adopt they were unfair and they harmed themselves. Allah said: “They said: &quot;Ah! woe to us! We were indeed wrong-doers!&quot;” and said “They will say: &quot;our Lord! Our misfortune overwhelmed us, and we became a people astray!”. Peace be upon prophet Mohammed, all his family, and all his companions. The earth became sad and the heavens became black. The rottenness became clear and covered the land and the sea as result of oppression of unbelievers. Life became turbid as result of debauchery of dissolute people. The morning light and the night darkness cried of the terrible crimes and this is a sign of near torture and long heavy darkness will come “And soon will the unjust assailants know what vicissitudes their affairs will take! “. Five years passed since the occupation and after two decades of aggression, war merchants and innocent people killers still repeat their crimes. On top of them, there are the American president Bush and his agent prime minister Al-MAliki. In Baghdad, Al-maliki played a show called the conciliation between who were already conciliated! And in Virginia, Bush repeats the only record he has. Bush still talks about Saddam, Al-Qaeda, September, Freedom and Democracy to cover his bad failure he and his administration got in all the places. It didn’t become strange that Bush still repeats his lies after he filled the eyes and ears of the world with big lies. In two years only (2002-2003), Bush and seven of his assistants made more than seven thousand misleading statements, Bush’s share of that was the quarter according to a report from the secretariat- general center and independent Press support fund. So not all who act as politics experts are like what they say. Bush addressed his speech to the militants only while the American people which didn’t become on the priorities of Bush and his administration will pay the trillions and heap of bodies. The war will cost a lot and will be paid by the Americans only. The harmful failure will be only their share. The ethical responsibility of the war will be taken only by them so my message is addressed to the American people who will have the distinct part in forces withdrawal as happened in Vietnam and other places where they got a lot of casualties. They now know very well how Iraq land is muddy and that it is harder than Vietnam mud in clear view has no need for analysis. Today, the Americans pay very high price as long as they stay longer in Iraq. O’ American people, Bush wanted to count the illusions and here I want to count the facts in numbers- which didn’t become secret to the whole world and especially the American and Iraqi peoples on various scenes: First: The political scene: All the American political solutions failed because it based on oppression and aggression, single-benefit tyranny, accumulated scandals and progression wars with no excuses. The era lie of mass destruction weapons became non valuable and the linking between the former Iraqi president Saddam and Al-Qaeda organization went away with winds. The pentagon proved the false of that propaganda by its repeatedly failures. Ebb and flow in Lebanon, map of loss in Palestine and Russian armor for rockets deterrence arriving to crashes in Afghanistan with inflation of the Chinese dragon, political failure in controlling the Iranian nuclear program, tears in Pakistan, flabbiness in the gulf and heat and starvation in Sudan and Chad. In Somalia, their agent is torn up and in Kenya there is deaf talking and crows war. No need to mention more in the time of failed American politics in Iraq. Through five years, USA couldn’t form an accepted political view even in its minimum extent. Petraeus gives evidence that the politics failed in Iraq before anyone asks him. Bill First, the former legist adviser of the Chief of majority in senate said that he American diplomatists who are assigned to help the Iraqi new government doesn’t meet the minimum requirements of efficient employee to the extent that any secondary school student can work better than them and better than those who sit in the American embassy in Baghdad. The world watches the sequenced resigns in Bush’s administration including ministers, big leaders, consultants, assistants and experts. Colin Pau; was not the only one, he was followed by his brothers in crime and terrorism, Wolfowitz: war criminal, Rumsfeld, Tenet reaching the Chief Officer in the central area (Iraq and Afghanistan) the Admiral William Fallon , and he won’t be the last one because Crocker the ambassador is on the way. Soon Flew of resigns will hit the war cock Cheney and the black Rice. The worldwide rejection of America is increasing rapidly and its reputation became in the mud. Multi-pole politics came back in the beginning of American century, secret prisons became declared even in the countries count themselves as freedom protectors and human rights keepers. The stormy matter is that the American president who doesn’t meet with other presidents except in the White House not in the airports as they do, brings his administration men to meet tribesmen in a normal city not the capital begging them the help to cover his politics big holes an trying to find a warm lap he never found in Iraq. Second: The economical scene: The trust in the American economy goes down while it experiences an unexampled depression and more than 70% of economy American experts prove that. The wisp of trillions they pump will not survive their economy and will have no real effect or positive results because the war in Iraq and Afghanistan devours hundreds trillion dollars. The historic drop down of Dollar against the other currencies continues. The green currency became no more trustful. Oil price exceeded110 dollar and gold knocks 1000 dollar door. The American economy will soon declare bankrupt after they failed politically and their military losses went up. Third: Militant and Security scene: The failure increases and the losses continue and who cannot make benefit of what he watches may make benefit if what he hears. Highest level of money spent on Military in Iraq, which exceeded the edge of 12 trillion per month. As long as the money spent increase, the failure becomes deeper and deeper and the American troops' morals go down. According to the speech of Chief Officer of the common forces Admiral Michel Moulin, the American army was severely exhausted in Iraq and Afghanistan and lost tens of thousands of troops, higher rate of injuries which is 15 to each death case while in Vietnam it was only 2.8 to each death case, 31,325 troops getting medical healing service, Tinnitus hit more than 128 thousand troops and other tens of thousands lost their hearing as result of bombs sound. Deafness comes on the top of hindrance in the American army according to veteran concerns ministry. Injuries increase is the unique sign in this was even tens thousands were not included in the statistics in a political game according to AP. More of suicide cases and madness attacks. Dr. Jerald Cross that 120 thousand of the American soldiers who served in Iraq and Afghanistan had problems in mind health, 69 thousand of them had madness shocks as result of the pressure they worked under. The national security of USA is still in danger, blasts are everywhere. The world is more dangerous and scary place now and this increases day by day. Today America is seriously threatened from countries and persons. America should plan for failure from now because they have no chance to success. The American administration should save the time and withdraw the soonest because loosing time in trials and politic games will be more killing than death itself. The American administration went through losing bet and today it is clear who the winner is and who the loser is and the reality of what Bush did became clear. &quot;You will now when the dust goes away whether it was horse or donkey under you&quot; If he moves so it will be to the failure- God willing- because the war continuity is like walking in killing land, swimming in lake of crocodiles and a chain of sadness and pain follow each other. O' American people: The real survival tool of your economy and security is withdrawing from Iraq and the tiger will be pulled out from its horn God willing. Learn this: who heard about what happened to the others are not like who saw what happened to them themselves so how about who got that '' against whom the word of thy Lord hath been verified would not believe- even if every Sign was brought unto them,- until they see (for themselves) the penalty grievous''. Bush's recent days against what he dreamed of is nightmare and he woke up on his lies, his period of rule is only dream and nothing was achieved on the ground. The fool person is who doesn’t make benefit of his mistakes and go ahead because of his arrogance and haughtiness without caring about the failure he got. We are ending our message by reminding the heroes and Mujahideen in Iraq of this painful occasion: O’ generous and brave people: Those honoured souls will never be convinced till they get the top and the best result while the humiliated souls may accept anything of mean goals and ends like flies which always circle around garbage. The honoured soul never accepts injustice and treason because it is higher than this while the humiliated and mean soul is on the opposite, each soul will tend to what suits it. This is near to the meaning of the Ayah when Allah said &quot;Everyone acts according to his own disposition: But your Lord knows best who it is that is best guided on the Way.&quot; So he will work according his manners and native nature. What was taken by force will not come back except by force and we put our trust in Allah then in you and we ask Him to support you and make you the victorious “If Allah helps you, none can overcome you!” Human in this life is like a traveler whose very loss is to stop and fail down after being very near to the goal. Who wants to make high building should make a hard base construction first because the ability of adding more high levels depend on the hardness of the basis, deeds and degrees are like this, where the deeds are the building and the belief is the basis. As long as the basis is hard constructed then whatever fails from the building can be compensated and rebuilt but if the basis is the weak then any problem may make it entirely down. Be acknowledged that has no more benefit than being truthful with his God in all his matters besides the real intention, Allah said ‘’And when a matter is resolved on, it were best for them if they were true to Allah” . Real Happiness is in being truthful in both intention and deeds. Truthful in intention is that it remains clean without impurities of hesitating or self-blaming, and truthful in deeds is do your best to achieve the goals without any type of laziness. Truthfulness actually integrates with the meaning of Honesty and trusting in Allah so the most honest and trusting person will be the most truthful. Who is truthful in all his deeds will have supporting miracles from Allah who is the most able to do anything. O’ Allah guide us to the right path, forgive us for our mistakes, firm our steps and make us victorious on the enemies. O Allah kill our enemies of the Americans and Iranians and guard us from their evils. Peace be upon our prophet Mohammed and all his family and companions. Islamic Army in Iraq Lead Written on Thursday 14th of Rabie Al-awal, 1429H 21th of March, 2008-04-09 source: iaisite-eng.org