In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful Statement no. 32 for year 1429 h – 2008 A.C Fight them! Allah will chastise them at your hands, and He will lay them low and give you victory over them, and He will heal the breasts of folk who are believers Praise be to Allah, prayers and peace be upon his messenger After putting trust in Allah and by his support the American enemy got the following losses in the period from 1/3 to 31/3/2008: 1. The American army losses in vehicles as follows: • Burning, destroying, spoilage and causing damages to (49 vehicles with killing and wounding their crews, distributed as following: (1 tank, 5 armored, 3 armored vehicles, 32 Hummers, 2 minesweepers, 1 lorries, 1 tanker, 1 truck) 2. The total number of operations for the guerrillas and the especial fights (13) operation, and the combats with the American forces (16) combats, and with the Safawive forces that cooperated with it (25), and sniping operations (3), and the explosions operation (58), and the rockets launchings (26) launches, and mortar Shells launchings (19) launches, the total number becomes up to (160) operations. 3. The American army losses in the individuals 40 soldiers were killed by snipping and exploding in an independent operations, and also killing and injuring 147 persons which represents the crews of the completely destroyed and the damaged vehicles, and by computing the lower limit for the existence of the individuals in each vehicle, the total number becomes up to 187 American officers and soldiers adding to that tens of wounded individuals. 4. (35) missiles launched on the headquarters of the American enemy and who cooperates with them, dispense as following: (1 Tarek, 5 Grad, 6 Katwusha, 4 C8, 16 C5K, 8 rocket Launchers(RBG7)). 5. 73 mortars and Grenades launched on the headquarters of the American enemy and who cooperates with them, dispense as following: (54 gauge 82 mm, 11 gauge60 mm, 8 Grenades rKg3). 6. The Idolater guards (ING) and the Interior forces (IMC) losses in vehicles and equipments: Burning, destroying, spoilage and causing damages to (11 different vehicles) dispense as following (5 Moneka, 1 lorry, 3 Nissan cars, 1 trucker, 1 civilian car owned to Death squads). 7. The Idolater guards (ING), the Interior forces (IMC), the Iranian revolution forces, the (Itlaa’at) team whom is his attendant and the Kurd militias losses in individuals: killing and injuring 25 soldiers, by sniping and exploding the walking convoys and adding 33 represent the crews of the completely destroyed vehicles and by computing the lowest limit for the individuals existence on each vehicle and by this the total number becomes up to 58 individual from the Idolater guards and the Interior forces adding to that tens of wounded individuals. 8. Finally killing the spies and the cooperators and the attacker Safawive militias and local corps (the local enemy) 54 individuals. 9. Our losses in individuals (4) martyrs from our mujahedeen brothers. A Copy from the statement to: Political Council of the Iraqi Resistance. Jihad and Reform Front (operations and media) for the reason of informing. Strategy Research Center. Counting and Evaluation section. Al-Fursan magazine. Praise be to Allah, Allah Akbar and Glory to Allah The military leadership for the Islamic Army in Iraq Jihad and Reform Front