addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Praise be to Allah, Creator of the heavens and the earth, Who blessed us with His religion and guided us to His straight path. Exalted Allah says "And the weighing on the day (Day of Resurrection) will be the true (weighing). So as for those whose Scale (of good deeds) will be heavy, they will be successful (by entering Paradise). And as for those whose Scale will be light, they find their souls in perdition (by entering Hell) because they denied and rejected our revelations."(7:8-9).
I testify that there is no god but Allah, the one and only true God . I also testify that Muhammad is His servant and messenger, peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family and his companions.
O Muslims,
I urge you, servants of Allah, and myself to fear Allah, the Great and Almighty, Who says:" And be afraid of the Day when you shall be brought back to Allah. Then every person shall be paid what he earned, and they shall not be dealt with unjustly."(2:281).
O Believers,
Exalted Allah informs us in His Book that on the Day of Judgment all records of deeds will be distributed to human beings. Allah Almighty says "Then surely We shall question those (people) to whom it (the Book) was sent, and verily, We shall question the Messengers. Then surely We shall narrate to them (their whole story) with knowledge, and indeed We have not been absent."(7:6-7). Allah, Exalted be He, shall take account of all our deeds and judge us accordingly "And we shall set up Balances of justice on the Day of Resurrection, then none will be dealt with unjustly in anything. And if there be the weight of a mustard seed, We will bring it. And Sufficient are We to take account."(21:47).
Allah, Glory to Him, the Greatest, guided us to prepare for this eminent day. Allah Almighty says:"on the Day when every soul will be confronted with all the good it has done, and all the evil it has done, it will wish that there was a great distance between it and its evil. God cautious you (to remember) Him."(3:30). Interpreting this verse, AlHassan AlBasari, may Allah have mercy on him, said that "Allah is so full of mercy to mankind that He's cautioning them himself."
Prophet Muhammad (pbhu), who was so merciful with his Umma, directed us to be well prepared for the Day of Judgment. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said she heard Prophet Muhammad (pbhu) saying: "There is no one that will be held to account on the Day of Judgment except that we will be ruined." Aisha said: O, Prophet of Allah, Exalted be he says:"then as for who will be given his record in his right hand, he surely will receive an easy reckoning."(84:7-8). Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:"This is only when the records of deeds are open. He will be lost whose balance sheets of deeds is examined on the Day of Judgment." (Allah Almighty examines only the record of deeds of those who committed wrongdoings in life).
 
Fear God, servants of Allah and take account of your deeds before the weighing scale is established. Muslim who practices self-assessment and self-judgment on his/her actions, will lessen his chances of being examined and judged by Exalted Allah. Judge yourselves before you are judged. Train the 'self' to exhort you towards all good deeds and refrain you from committing all prohibited deeds.
Dear Muslims, remind yourselves to judge all your actions and thoughts, seize the valuable moments in this life before the final judgment where we will not have the opportunity to make up for our misdeeds. Remember Exalted Allah Who says:"O you who believe! Fear Allah and keep your duty to Him. And let every person look at what he has sent forth for tomorrow, and fear Allah. Verily, Allah is Well-Acquainted with what you do."(59:18).
When a good Muslim ends his/her day, he/she should turn towards himself/herself and ponder over his/her actions performed in the past and assess the acts of the future.
Umar ibn Al-Khattab said "Judge yourselves before you are judged, evaluate yourselves before you are evaluated and be ready for the greatest investigation (the Day of Judgment). A good Muslim said: A human being would not be among the God-wary (taqi) until he appraises himself the way he appraises his(financial) partner."
We ask Exalted Allah to help us all practice self-judgment. We ask Allah to help us remember Him, be thankful to Him and worship Him. We ask Allah Almighty to reward us the way He rewards well-doers and help us obey Him and those who He ordained us to obey as Almighty says "O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Muhammad pbuh) and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority."(4:59).
May Allah help us benefit from the Holy Quran and the Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh).













