addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Praise be to Allah Who made Faith (in Him) The guiding Light. I testify that there is no god but Allah, the One and Unique God Who says, Exalted be He "On those who believe and work deeds of righteousness, will (God) Most Gracious bestow love."(19:96). I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad, Allah's servant and messenger, who was the best believer in Exalted Allah, said:"Faith is made up of sixty and some branches, one of which is modesty." May peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, His family, His companies and all of their followers until the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
I urge myself first and all of you to fear Allah Almighty in compliance with His words "And whoever obeys God and His Messenger, and fears God and does right, that will win (in the end)."(24:52).
O Believers,
Exalted Allah says "The Messenger believes in what has been revealed to him from his Lord, as do the man of faith. Each one (of them) believes in God, His angles, His books, and His messengers. "We make no distinction (they say) between one and other of His messengers" And they say: We hear, and we obey: (we seek) Your forgiveness, our Lord, and to You is the end of all journeys."(2:285).
What is the true meaning of faith and what are its essentials? Faith is acquired first and foremost by virtue of heart submissiveness, followed by a declaration (of the two shahadah) and sincere and good deeds. In other words, faith is mostly an inner conviction of the truth of Islam expressed by the declaration of the Islamic confession and followed by the fulfillment of the Muslim duties and good works. Faith is the basis of the message of Allah to His servants.
Iman(Faith) has essentials that Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) mentioned: Gabriel (Jibril) came to Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) and asked him: "Tell me about Iman " He said "Faith (Iman) is to believe in Allah, His angels, His books, His messengers, the Last Day and to believe in divine destiny, both the good and the evil thereof...".
These essentials of faith bring peace and tranquility to one's soul. A believer in Allah who knows His attributes is aware that he's relying on a Power that Will never fail him.
One of the essentials of faith is the belief in angels. They are creatures made of light; Gabriel (Jibril) was the medium between Allah and the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) during the revelation of the Quran, Michael (mikaeel) is the angel of sustenance and Israfeel whose only purpose is to blow the trumpet that will herald the end of the world. A lot of  angels were created by Allah Almighty to help and serve the believers, while some were created to ask Allah to forgive people.
A Mu'men (believer) also believes in the sacred books; The Torah revealed to Moses (pbuh), the Bible revealed to Jesus (pbuh), Zaboor revealed to Prophet David (pbuh) and the Quran revealed to Prophet Muhammad (pbuh).
A man of faith believes in the prophets and the messengers of Allah; they were servants of Allah whom Allah chose to reveal His messages and to safeguard human beings against going astray.
Another essential of faith is the belief in the Day of Judgment; it is  an acknowledgment of reward for good doers and punishment for wrong doers. The Day of Judgment has tremendous impact on one's soul; it is by itself an incentive to be ready for that day. The Holy Quran often reminds us of the Day of Judgment; Exalted Allah says: "This (instruction) is an admonition for all amongst you who believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is more virtue and purity amongst you and Allah knows and you know not." (2:232).
Allah besotwed upon Mu'men peace if he/she believes in Divine Destiny, which is a submission and contentment with all what Allah Almighty decrees. Nevertheless, if one supplicates Exalted Allah with conviction and will, Allah may ward off or delay affliction. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her said: "the Prophet of Allah (pbuh) said:"No believer makes a dua and is wasted. Either it is granted her in this world or deposited for him in the Hereafter."
O servants of Allah,
The Prophet (pbuh) said:"How remarkable is the case of the believer; there is good for him in everything, but this is not the case of anyone except the believer. When the believer receives any good, he is thankful to Allah, and gets a reward. And when some misfortune befalls him. He endures it patiently, for which he is (also) rewarded." 
The believer feels safe and peaceful as he/she resorts to patience in adversity and is thankful to Allah in prosperity. Such believer will earn the love of Allah and human beings. He/She recites Allah's saying: "O Allah! We have heard the call of one calling (us) to Faith, 'Believe you in Allah', and we have believed, O Allah! Forgive us our sins, blot out from us our iniquities, and take to Thyself our souls in the company of the righteous. O Allah! Grant us what You did promise unto us through Your messengers, and save us from shame on the Day of Judgment; for You never break Your promise."(3:193-194).
May Allah help us obey Him and those who He has ordained us to obey for Allah Almighty says:"O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the messenger, and those in authority among you."(4:59).
May Allah make us of the people of the Quran and those who travel the path of His chosen Prophet (pbuh).
 













