addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Friday preachers (kutaba') in the UAE on 7/1/2011 stressed that the bombing in Alexandria, in the Arab Republic of Egypt, is an indication that some people want to "spread corruption on earth." It is not targeting Christians. Its purpose is rather to undermine peace and security. This unfortunate incident was condemned all over the world.
Friday preachers also noted that the United Arab Emirates was prompt to denounce the bombing. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah bless him, sent a condolence cable condemning this painful incident and criminal act. Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Interior, asserted that The UAE Government stands with the Egyptian people. Further, a high-level government delegation visited the Coptic Cathedral Church in Abu Dhabi to express solidarity with the government and people of the Arab Republic of Egypt and extend condolences to the families of the victims.
On the other hand, Friday preachers noted that man will reach peace and tranquility if he/she believes in Divine Destiny, which is contentment with all what Allah decrees. Nevertheless, if one supplicates Exalted Allah with conviction and will, Allah may ward off or delay affliction. The believer feels safe and peaceful as he/she resorts to patience in adversity and is thankful to Allah in prosperity.
Friday preachers stressed the fact that faith is an inner conviction (of the truth of Islam) expressed by the declaration of the Islamic confession ( the two shahada) and followed by the fulfillment of the Muslim duties and good works. They added that a believer in Allah who knows His attributes is aware that he's relying on a Power that Will never fail him.
One of the essentials of faith, according to Friday preachers, is the belief in angels; they are creatures made of light. Gabriel (Jibril) was the medium between Allah and the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) during the revelation of the Holy Quran, Michael (Mikhaeel) is the angel of sustenance and Israfeel whose only purpose is to blow the trumpet that will herald the end of the world. A lot of angels were created by Allah Almighty to help and serve human beings, while some were created to ask Allah to forgive people.
Further, Friday preachers asserted that a Muslim must believe in the sacred books; The Torah revealed to Moses (pbuh), The Bible revealed to Jesus (pbuh), Zaboor revealed to Prophet David (pbuh) and the Quran revealed to Prophet Muhammad (pbuh).
A man of faith believes in all the prophets and the messengers of Allah; they were servants of Allah whom Allah chose to reveal His messages and to safeguard human beings against going astray.
 Finally, Friday preachers noted that "another essential of faith is the belief in the Day of Judgment; it is an acknowledgment of reward for good doers and punishment for wrong doers. The Day of Judgment has tremendous impact on one's soul; it is by itself an incentive to be ready for that day. The Holy Quran often reminds us of the Day of Judgment."













