addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praises are to Allah, Creator of the heavens and the earth. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, the one and true God Who loves those who repent and purify themselves. I also bear witness that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is the servant and messenger of Allah, the best of mankind and Allah's Khalil (companion), peace and blessings be upon him, His pure and spotless Family, all His companions and all who follow them until the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
I urge myself first and all of you to fear Allah Almighty Who says "O you who believe! Keep your duty to Allah and fear Him, and speak (always) the truth. He will direct you to do righteous good deeds and will forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger (pbuh), he has indeed attained the highest achievement (i.e. he will be saved from the Hell-fire and will be admitted to Paradise." (Al-Ahzab:70-71).
Dear Believers,
Human beings are born in a state of purity. Indeed, Islam bases the concept of taharah (purity) on the fitrah (natural disposition of the human being). Taharah is a fundamental part and an essential indication of faith as Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:"Al-tuhour means iman (faith)". Maintaining the purity of the fitrah is the goal of Muslims which can only be achieved by total adherence to the guidance of Islam. In fact, inseparable from prayers in Islam is taharah as Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said "Prayer will be rendered null without tuhour (purification)."
Taharah is a manifestation of both outer cleanliness and internal purification of the heart. It refers to cleanliness of the body and the surrounding environment. Muslim is required to make ablution (wudu') five times a day and to wear good and clean clothing and to look his best before prayer "O Children of Adam! Wear your beautiful apparel at every time and place of prayer."(7:31). Homes and mosques must also be clean.
Islam also urges Muslim to "sanitize" his heart and purify his entire life from negative attributes such as stinginess, envy and hatred. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to invoke Allah saying "O Allah! Purify me with snow, hail and cool water. O Allah! Purify me of sins as a white dress is purified of dirt."
Purity of the heart is a way to Paradise. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:"Do not envy one another, nor dispute with one another, nor hate one another, nor leave one another in the lurch. Take the servants of Allah as brethren."
Dear Muslims,
Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) heralded paradise to one of his companion because of his honesty, envy and hatred avoidance and his forgiveness. Islam stresses the need for integrity and warding off all negative attributes.
Allah Almighty bestowed His blessings on Mary, may Allah have peace on her, because of her purity and Iffah (chastity, sexual abstinence). Allah rewarded her by raising her status to become one of the most perfect of women ever created. Allah Almighty says in the Holy Quran:"Behold! The angels said:" O Mary! God has chosen you and purified you - chosen you above the women of all nations."(Al-Imran:42).
Body cleanliness, heart purity and integrity bring Muslim closer to Allah Almighty Who bestows upon him His love, acceptance and forgiveness in addition to earning the respect and love of human beings. Allah, Exalted, says:"But those who believe and do deeds of righteousness, We shall soon admit to Gardens with rivers flowing beneath,- their eternal home: therein shall they have companions pure and holy."(Al-Nisa':57).
May Allah help us  be among His pure servants, and help us obey Him and those whom He has ordained us to obey: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (al-Nisa':59).
May Allah make us among the people of the Holy Quran and the followers of the Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad (pbub).













