addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) and Sheikh Humaid Bin Rashid Al Nuaimi Charity Foundation have signed a memorandum of understanding to enhance strategic partnership. Representing the Charity Foundation at the signing ceremony was Sheikha Azza Bint Abullah Al Nuaimi, Director General. GAIAE was represented by H.E. Obeid Bin Hamad Al-Zaabi, Director of GAIAE office in Ajman.
Per the memorandum, both parties will collaborate in improving services offered so as to optimize them. Further, the memorandum addressed enhancing humanitarian and social collaboration in Ajman as well as exchanging expertise and research that benefit the social development progress in Ajman.
 
Sheikha Azza Bint Abullah Al Nuaimi said that the Charity Foundation has been collaborating with GAIAE in charitable and humanitarian work for years. She added that the memorandum of understanding aims at enhancing cooperation and exchanging expertise mainly in the field of awqaf (religious endowments) and charity and promoting volunteer work . Sheikha Azza noted that the Foundation has been offering services to ease burdens on nationals including orphans, divorced women, widows, the elderly, and people with financial or health distress. Sheikha Azza added that they have been providing financial assistance to university students, maintaining homes and supporting families in remote areas.
Mr.Obeid Hamad Saif Al-Zaabi, GAIAE director in Ajman said that signing the memorandum is in line with both parties' eagerness to strengthen strategic cooperation in the charitable field. Mr.Al-Zaabi added that there will be data and information exchange for the benefit of charitable work. These documents will remain confidential and will only be accessible to a third party upon prior written approval and with the follow up of an assigned employee.
It is to be noted that Humaid Bin Rashed Al-Nuaimi Charity Foundation is a national charitable organization founded per decree no. 4 for the year 2000 to fulfill the humanitarian and social needs of destitute families in Ajman.













