addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praises are to Allah, Creator of the heavens and the earth. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah. I also bear witness that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is the servant and the messenger of Allah. May Allah bestow peace and blessings upon our Master Muhammad, His family, His companions and all those who follow them till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers,
I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah Almighty Who says "And whosoever obeys Allah and His Messenger, fears Allah, and keeps his duty (to Him), such is the successful (in the end)."(An-Nur:52). 
Dear Muslims,
Islam took great interest in the establishment of a stable and secure family institution. It is evident from the many proclamations supporting and protecting Islamic family. Even the criteria to look for in the female partner were set forth by Prophet Muhammad (pbuh). "A woman is married for four reasons; her wealth, her family, her beauty and her faith. So, marry the one who is religious and you will prosper."
Woman is the source of change and influence; she is the pillar, the cornerstone and foundation of an Islamic home. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) heralded the Paradise to the righteous wife who is compliant to Islam and obedient with her husband. He (pbuh) said:  "If a woman performs the five prayers, guards her private parts (from anything illegal), and obeys her husband, she will enter Paradise from any door she wishes."
The wife should be attentive to the comfort and well-being of her husband and her children. Raising offspring properly and righteously is woman's most important and valuable responsibility. It has tremendous impact on society.  Mothers must instill in their children faith, love for one's homeland, loyalty to its leadership, ethical values as well as the importance of education.
Dear Believers,
While establishing a family, both husband and wife must realize the fact that no companion is perfect. Because we were created by Allah, the Exalted, Who knows our shortcomings, He commanded us in the Holy Quran to live with each other honorably: "Live with them on a footing of kindness and equality. If you take a dislike to them it may be that you dislike a thing through which Allah brings a great deal of good." (al-Nisa':19). Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) called on both partners to focus on the positive attributes of each other and not to dwell on the negative "Let no male believer ever hate a female believer. Though he may dislike one of her attributes, he will be pleased with another." Further, it is binding upon the husband to live with his wife in the best way possible and to be lenient to her in everything Allah has permitted. Islam addressed all values that lead to establishing a happy and stable family.
 
Fruitful cooperation between family members is highly advocated in Islam. Such sharing is mostly important between husband and wife in regard to child rearing and household management. Woman and man complement each other and must therefore share household responsibilities. Helping one's wife is a sign of caring. Indeed, many instances can be found regarding Prophet Muhammad (pbub) kindness and gentle way with his wives. Despite all his responsibilities as a messenger of Allah, he used to share household responsibilities. He used to be very kind to children. He used to talk to them in a gentle way, stroke their heads, carry them on his back and give them dates before he ate one. He (pbuh) said:"The one who is not merciful, will not have mercy shown to him."
Establishing a constructive dialogue and discussing ideas and opinions is an essential family value. Dialogue may have great effect on fostering self confidence and resolving life issues. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to seek the advice of his wives. He used to be pleased with the opinion and wisdom of Um Salma, may Allah be pleased with her.
One of the Islamic family values is safeguarding family from outer interference in its affairs. Further, self satisfaction with one's rizq and envy avoidance are important virtues. We are required to be pleased with the rizq that Allah bestowed upon us while aiming for a better life.
Living in peace entails keeping one's secrets in particular what goes in the bedroom. It is a private matter that should not be discussed with outsiders due to its adverse effect on the family's stability.
The Messenger of Allah once said:" Amongst the most evil of people with Allah on the Day of Judgment is a man who has relationship with his wife, then he spreads her secrets."
Loyalty is also of crucial importance. Indeed, the need for it increases as one grows old. Husband is required to be loyal to his wife, maintain her rights, appreciate her past good deeds and honor her in her old age. In Islam, marital relationship fosters mutual appreciation, caring and sharing. Allah, the Almighty, made the husband and wife a dwell for each other and named marriage" the solemn covenant."
We pray to Allah, the Exalted, to help us obey Him and those whom He has commanded us to obey in the Holy Quran:"O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you."(al-Nisa':59).
May Allah make us of the people of the Quran and those who travel the path of the Chosen One (pbuh).
 













