addthis_pub="newawqaf";















H.H. Sheikh Nahyan Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research, President of Zayed University, stressed that "Muslim and Christian Arabs share the same history language, homeland , common values, interests and goals. Both denounce discrimination and reject abhorred exploitation of the latest events".
This opening speech came at an interfaith seminar entitled "15 Years of Love and Affection" organized by the General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments, the Tabah Foundation for Islamic Studies and Zayed University. The Islamic Scholar and Preacher, Sheikh Ali Z.A. Al Jifri and Monk Hegumen Isaac Al Anba Bishoy, Shepherd of Saint Anthony Cathedral for Coptic Orthodox in Abu Dhabi spoke at the seminar.
H.H. Sheikh Nahyan Mubarak Al Nahyan addressed the need to fight extremists, both Muslims and Christians, whose purposes are to destabilize our nations, create tension and skepticism and spread religious and sectarian turmoils. Sheikh Nahyan added that interfaith seminars must be reinforced by actively promoting common heritage and engaging people from all walks of life through initiatives and activities to fight mutual stereotyping. He also stressed the vital importance of education, the media and the religious institutions in bringing tolerance toward different opinions and beliefs.
H.H.Sheikh Nahyan also noted the impact of globalization on all aspects of life in the Arab world, in particular Muslim Christian relationship, hoping that the maturity of both parties will hinder the negative effects of any external element.
H.H. Sheikh Nahyan finally expressed his hope that Zayed University would be the pioneer to overcome these challengers based on the legacy of the UAE founder, Sheikh Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah have mercy on him, who was keen on building a country where people can practice their religious freely and the continuing efforts of Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah bless him''. He also announced that Zayed University will play a vital role through the Department of Islamic Studies which will open this year.
Monk Hegumen Ishaq Bishoy expressed his thanks to H.H. Sheikh Nahyan A Nahyan, Minster of Higher Education and Scientific Research, President of Zayed University, to the General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments and the Islamic Scholar and  Preacher,  Habib Ali Al-Jifri, Tabah Founder and Director General.
Monk Bishoy overviewed historical periods of fraternity between Muslims and Christians in 15 centuries of peaceful coexistence.
He also asserted that religions were revealed to bring happiness to mankind alluding to the fact that Egyptian Copts did not consider Crusaders as Christians but rather despotic and corrupt invaders. Indeed, Copts welcomed the defeat of the Crusaders.
He also added that Muslims and Christians are cousins. Monk Hegumen Ishaq Bishoy quoted several Quranic verses and Hadith promoting tolerance and good treatment of non-Muslims such as "no compulsion in religion."Finally Monk Bishoy extended his best wishes for continuous unity and stability in the UAE which unifies peoples of all faith.
The Islamic Preacher, Alhabib Al-Jibri, Founder and Director General of Tabah Foundation for Islamic Studies in Abu Dhabi, said that the recent events in the region are not religiously driven. They were rather prompted by extremists from both sides  and triggered by political and economic problems. He urged everyone to combat extremist rhetoric and warned of its detrimental impact quoting the Holy Quran and the Hadith.
Sheikh Taleb Alshehi, GAIAE Preaching Director overviewed the efforts exerted by GAIAE to enhance tolerance, moderation and peaceful coexistence as evident in the Friday sermons, unified preaching in addition to lectures and seminars. He also added that GAIAE services in the newspapers, television, publications, Ifta' Center are gearing towards this goal.
Most attendees comments focused on people's rights in the midst of tense periods due to poverty, increasing prices and many other issues that require comprehensive solutions.
 













