addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr.Mohammed Matar AlKaabi, director general of the General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE), recently announced that the number of fatawas (Islamic rulings) issued by GAIAE Ifta' Center is expected to reach one million this year. He also noted that the Ifta' Center issued around 825.979 fatawas since its inception in May, 2008 till the end of 2010. Dr.AlKaabi added that the free service is offered to the public via phone calls, SMS and GAIAE website. He also stressed that the Ifta' Center has a state-of-the-art high quality electronic system that provides the best communication tools.
In an interview with Albayan Emirati newspapers, Dr.AlKaabi mentioned the need to expand the Ifta' Center to meet the steady increase in inquiries noting that the center has a substantial number of qualified male and female religious scholars. Dr.AlKaabi also noted that the number of inquiries has risen by 142% between 2008 and 2009. Inquiries received via phone calls ranked first, followed by SMS and electronic inquiries.
Facebook Site
GAIAE will launch a new project that makes use of facebook which is an important social utility to connect people. Dr.AlKaabi stated that this project will facilitate GAIAE mission, namely the disseminate of religious awareness and information among people from all walks of life. Dr.AlKaabi noted that the Ifta' Center is conducting a survey in regards to its services to improve it and to benefit from new suggestions.
Female Inquiries
Dr. AlKaabi said that GAIAE has seen a noticeable increase in female inquiries answered by female scholars. A plan to double the number of female muftis has been made, hence enhancing the female religious role in society.
Phone Inquiries
A substantial number of inquiries are received via phone calls averaging between 2000-3000 calls day . Such number may reach 3500 inquiries during special religious occasions. The toll free no. is (8002422). The Center receives phone calls from 8AM to 8Pm during week days. Dr.AlKaabi added that The Ifta' Center has introduced a state-of-the art communication system; a phone caller will be asked first to select the language (Arabic, English or Urdu), then select the topic (family issues, Islamic tenets...), the call is transferred to the mufti according to his/her specialty. Avaya system gives the possibility of inquiring from more than one mufti or making conference calls. Inquiries are saved to meet the needs of society in preparing GAIAE religious awareness and educational programs.
 













