addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Praises be to Allah, Creator of the Universe, many, pure and blessed praises. I bear witness that there is god but Allah, the One God Who Has no partner. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant and messenger of Allah. May Allah have His peace and blessings upon our Master Muhammad, His family (His Ahl Al-Bayt), His chosen Companions and all those who will follow their righteous path till the Day of Judgment. 
Dear Muslims:
I call on myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and pious. I also urge you to obey Him, the Almighty, Who says:"O you who believe! Keep your duty to Allah and fear Him, and speak (always) the truth. He will direct you to do righteous deeds and will forgive you your sins. And whosoever obeys Allah and His Messenger (pbuh), has indeed attained a great achievement." (33:70-71).
O servants of Allah:
Allah has chosen man, has favored him and has fully endowed him. He has sent down to him Messengers and Holy Books. He also set rules and commands. Allah, the Almighty, says:"And indeed We have honored the Children of Adam. And we Have carried them on land and sea, and have given them for sustenance good and pure things, and conferred on them special favors, above a great part of those We have created."(17:70).
Islam was sent down as mercy and guidance to mankind. In a world that has become smaller and interdependent, in a world seeking peace and stability, mankind are in crucial need, now more than ever, to learn the true principles and essence of Islam and the life of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him). His Noble Sirah represents the best practical model of coexistence in society and amongst different communities on the basis of fraternity and righteous cooperation. Islam asserts  and recognizes diversity and multiplicity as part of the Divine intention and purpose in creation. Allah says in the Holy Quran:"And if Allah had so willed. He could surely have made mankind one nation, nut they will not cease to disagree. Except him on whom Allah has bestowed His mercy and for that did He create them."(11:118-119).
Islam has laid the foundations of peaceful coexistence in society and even in the world at large. Islam calls for peaceful cooperation which leads to a better life for everyone.  When Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) was exhorting Muslims to support the newly established Muslim community in Medina, He signed the Constitution that embodied the Islamic principle of reaching contractual peaceful coexistence with adherents of other religions. Based on the Islamic principles, Muslims all over the world live in peace in diverse societies irrespective of differences in religion, race or culture.
Dear servants of Allah:
Islam prohibits any form of coerced (forced) conversion to Islam. Indeed, Allah, the Exalted, says in the Holy Quran:"There is no compulsion in religion" Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) called for Islam with gentle approach and wisdom. "It is reported from Abu Huraira that the Prophet, may Peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, sent riders towards Najd. They brought a man of the bani Hanifa, whose name was Thumama ibn Uthal, and tied him to one of the pillars of the mosque. Then the Holy Prophet came out to him and asked him three times to cover. When the man refused, the Prophet asked them to let him go. The man went to a date tree close to the mosque, had a bath and came back and said:"I testify that there is no god but Allah, and Muhammad is His Messenger."
 
Islamic teachings call for Muslims to respect and cooperate with people from all walks of life regardless of difference in religion. Islam stands firm for the principle of non-coercion. It even emphasizes the importance of honoring one's parents irrespective of their faith. Asma' bint (daughter) of Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with them, said:"My mother came to visit me at the time of the Prophet (pbuh) and she was a nonbeliever. I inquired from the Prophet (pbuh) who said:"Continue to do good to your non-believing mother."
Islam stands firm for justice in society. The reluctance of some people to convert to Islam should not be by any means a pretext to assault or hurt them or forgo their rights. Allah, the Almighty, says in the Holy Quran:"Let not the hatred of others to you make you swerve to wrong and depart from justice. Be just: that is next to piety: and fear God."(5:8).
Muslims must keep and honor their treaties, covenants or agreements...because disloyalty and betrayal are two abhorred attributes in Islam.
We ask Allah, the Almighty, to help us obey Him and obey those He has ordained us to obey. Allah says in the Holy Quran:"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you."(4:59).













