addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Saqr bin Mohammad Al Qasimi, Chairman of Sharjah Department of Islamic Affairs, Secretary General of Awqaf General Trust, stressed the importance of strengthening cooperation and coordination between GAIAE and his department in implementation of the UAE strategic goals and in line with the eagerness of the UAE prudent leadership to achieve excellence.
HH Sheikh Al Qasimi was speaking during the meeting of the directors of GAIAE Sharjah offices on 6/2/2011 which was attended by HE Dr.Mohammad Matar Alkaabi, GAIAE Director General.
HH Sheikh Saqr conveyed the greetings of HH Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qassimi, Ruler of Sharjah and HH the Crown Prince.
HE Dr.AlKaabi expressed his sincere appreciation to the UAE leadership for their interest in improving mosques in view of its vital societal role.
Attendees overviewed the achievements of Sharjah Department of Islamic Affairs.
Later, UAE mosques inspectors attended part of the meeting to express their opinions. Mechanics of inspection work were also discussed in addition to future inspection duties.
The meeting addressed housing for imams in the Northern Emirates and a recommendation to prepare a study in this regards was issued. Moreover, the meeting agreed to meet the needs of some mosques to renew the interior and the air conditioners and provide new copies of the Holy Quran. An assessment of the work of mosques cleaning companies was also made.
Dr.AlKaabi stressed the importance of reminding all mosques personnel to end their vacation leaves a week prior to Ramadan. The need for more muezzins for Friday second calls to prayers was also tackled.
Finally, the meeting reviewed the implementation of last meeting's recommendations, mainly to survey all lands adjacent to mosques with the hope of gaining board of directors approval to establish awqaf buildings on it, demolish and rebuild old mosques and prepare an updated guide for mosques personnel.
 













