addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  
Praise be to Allah Who blessed us with salah and made it the cornerstone of religion and the spiritual migration (Mi'raaj) of believers towards Allah. All praises be to Allah who urges us to pray in the Book of Dhikr Mubeen (clear admonition). Allah, the Almighty, says:" Verily, prayer is a timed ordinance for the believers."(4:103). I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, the One and Only God. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant and messenger of Allah, who said:" Prayer is light". May Allah have peace and blessings upon our Master Muhammad, his Descendants (or Family), his Chosen Companions and upon all who are travelling their path till the Day of Judgment. Oh Muslims,I call on myself first and all of you to be God-fearing. I also urge you to obey Allah, the Glorious, the Almighty who says:" O you who believe! Fear Allah, and (always) say a word directed to the Right: That He may make your conduct whole and sound and forgive you your sins: he that obeys Allah and His Messenger, has already attained the highest achievements."(33:70-71). Oh Believers,Allah, the Exalted, says in the Hadith:"I have divided the prayer into two halves. A half of it is for Me and a half for My servant, and My servant shall acquire what he asked for. If he says (All praise and thanks be to Allah, the Creator of the Heavens and the Earth) Allah says 'My servant has praised Me' When the servant says (The Most Gracious, the Most Merciful) Allah says 'My servant has glorified me' When he says (The Owner of the Day of Recompense) Allah says 'My servant has related all matters to Me. When he says (You (alone) we worship, and you (alone) we ask for help) Allah says' This is between Me and My servant, and My servant shall acquire what he sought. When he says (Guide is to the straight path. The way of those on whom you have granted your grace, not (the way) of those who earned your anger, nor of those who went astray) Allah says 'This is for My servant, and My servant shall acquire what he has asked for.' Prayer is the very foundation of Islam. It is the second most important pillar after the two shahada (the testimony of faith). Timely prayers serve as direct connection between Allah and His servants during which the human's soul reaches real and ultimate comfort from daily worries. When we pray, we ascend to be spiritually in close contact with Allah and we invoke and supplicate Him. The importance of performing Salah needs not be overemphasized. Indeed, Allah made it clear to us when He conveyed this pillar to Prophet Muhammad during his ascension to the Heavens (Mi'raaj). It was a direct ordinance from the Almighty to the Prophet to pray five times a day. Since then, prayer became extremely important and cherished by the Prophet. He (pbuh) said: "Prayer was made the sweetness of my eyes." The Prophet (pbuh) was constantly praying. Prayer used to relax his mind and soul. He was longing for it so much so that He once said to Bilal:" Oh! Bilal please recite the call for prayer (adhan) and make my heart and soul peaceful."  Oh Servants of Allah, Regular observance of salah has been ordained by Allah, the Glorious, the Sublime:"Guard strictly your (habit of) prayers, especially the Middle Prayer, and stand before Allah in a devout (frame of mind)."(2:238). Consistency in prayer entails also its proper performance, mainly sujuud and prostration. The Messenger of Allah, upon whom be peace, said "If one performs and perfects his ablution and prays with his heart and face (completely on his prayer)he will not be afflicted with evil till the following prayer." Furthermore, he who maintains regular and proper prayers, Allah wipes away his sins by them. Allah, the Exalted, says:" And establish regular prayers at the two ends of the day and at the approaches of the night: for those things that are good remove those that are evil: be that the word of remembrance to those who remember (Allah)."(11:114). the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said:" If a person had a stream outside his door and he bathed in it five times, that is like the five daily prayers." Oh Brothers and Sisters, Successful indeed are the believers who maintain their prayers for they will be rewarded in the Hereafter. Allah, the Almighty, will favor them with Furdous, which is the highest level in Paradise. Allah says in the Holy Book:"The Believers must (eventually) win through. Who will enter Paradise: they will dwell therein (for ever)."(23:1-11). Successful are those who humble themselves in their prayers as Allah, the Almighty, says:" The Believers must (eventually) win through. Those who humble themselves in their prayers."(23:1-2). Oh Servants of Allah,Satan has the greatest hostility towards prayer because he is fully aware of its implications. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said' Satan puts three knots at the back of the head of any of you if he is asleep. On every knot he reads and exhales the following words 'The night is long, so stay asleep.' When one wakes up and remembers Allah, one knot is undone; and when one performs ablution, the second knot is undone, and when one prays, the third knot is undone and one gets up energetic with a good heart in the morning. Otherwise one gets lazy and with a mischievous heart.May Allah, the Exalted, help us observe regular prayers and guide us to obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey in the Holy Quran:"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and Obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (4:59).
Praise be to Allah, Creator of the Universe. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is his servant and Messenger, the best of mankind. May Allah have peace and blessings upon our Master Muhammad, His Family, His Companions and those who will follow their path till the Day of Judgment. Oh Believers! Allah, the Exalted, dislikes those worshippers who leave prayer intentionally. In fact ,such wrondoing entails Allah's wrath as the Almighlty says in the Holy Quran:"But after them there followed a posterity who missed prayers and followed after lusts; soon, then, will they face Destruction."(19:59). Indeed, prayer is the first deed that man will be accountable for in the Day of Judgment:" The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said:" The first of one's work that he shall be called to account for on the Day of Judgment is the prayer; if he performed it well, he will be prosperous. Otherwise, he will be loser." (19:59).













