addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praise be to Allah, Creator of heaven and earth. All praise be to You, O Allah, for revealing to us the Quran in a clear and eloquent Arabic language. All praise be to you, O Allah, the Most Worthy, the Exalted, the Sublime. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, I also bear witness that our Prophet Muhammad, The servant and Messenger of Allah, was the most eloquent Arabic speaker and Khatib. May Allah have peace and blessings upon our Master Muhammad, His honorable Family, His Companions and those who follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment.
O servants of Allah,
I urge myself first and all of you to fear and obey Allah, the Most Exalted Who says in his Noble Book:" O you who believe! Fear Allah and keep your duty to Him. And let every person look to what he has sent forth for tomorrow. And fear Allah. Verily, Allah is Well-Acquainted with what you do."(59:18).
O believers,
Allah, The Almighty, The Glorious, the Sublime Wisdom, sent down the Holy Quran in the Arabic language which possesses special endowments such as meticulous structure, richness, perfection and beautiful recitation. Allah, Exalted be He, says:"Allah, Most Gracious. It is He Who taught the Qur'an. He has created man. It is He has taught him eloquent speech."(55:1-4). The Quran, human being and Arabic language were the cornerstones of Islamic civilization. The Quran is the source of fair legislations and is a comprehensive Divine Book. Human being as mentioned in the Holy book refers to Arabs and Arabic speakers. Allah, the Exalted, says:" So hold you fast to the Revelation sent down to you; verily you are on a Straight Way. The Qur'an is indeed the Message, for you and for your people; and soon shall you (all) be brought to account."(43-44).
Think deeply, O servants of Allah, about those two verses of the Quran. Contemplate How Allah, the Exalted, combine the revelation's language, message and way of life. It is a reminder of the vital importance of the Arabic language and Arabic speakers. Interpreting those verses, Islamic scholars said that the fact that the Quran was sent down in Arabic and was revealed to an Arab man is an honor to you and your people. Speakers of other languages who adopted Islam had to learn the language.
 
This evident honor is reinforced in several verses of the Noble Book. Allah, the Almighty, says: Ha Mim. By the Book that makes things clear. We have made it a Quran in Arabic, that you may be able to understand (and learn wisdom). And verily, it is in the Mother of the Boo, in Our Presence, high (in dignity), full of wisdom."(43:1-4).
O Muslims,
How eloquent is the style of the Quran and how clear is its message. Islam spread all over the globe and was enriched by contacts with other civilizations. Arabic became the language of vast sections of the Islamic civilized world. Arabic was the reservoir of human knowledge. A large number of manuscripts were written in Arabic .Great scholars, whose contributions to the course of science and civilization are well know, used Arabic as a writing tool. With the spread of the new faith, Arabic became an international language. No other language could be compared to Arabic in its immense inner resources of vocabulary and as a perfect instrument of precision. Civilizations adopted the Arabic language as a universal medium, and vast and rich knowledge and masterpieces in different fields including grammar were written in Arabic. The Arabic language was, then, as it is now a living language capable of renewing itself and it will remain so till the Day of Judgment as the Almighty says " We have, without doubt, sent down the Message; and We will assuredly guard it (from corruption)." (15:9).
O servants of Allah,
The Arabic language remains nowadays the language of religion, culture, literature civilization, science and the media. It is of vital importance to make plans to introduce and enhance this language in the mosques and in society, in our schools and universities, so as to assert our identity and our legacy in all ages. Every strong nation which is deeply rooted in its past has preserved its language. We, as Muslims, must preserve Arabic language which is easily capable of creating new words and terms in order to adapt to the demands of the modern world. It is our hope that the new generation would help advance Arabic language which embodies our history and reflects our identity.
O Muslims,
Addressing the need to preserve and enhance the Arabic language is not a luxury but a religious and national duty. Indeed, according to the UAE Constitution and in line with the strategic planning of the prudent leadership, the Arabic language is to be preserved and enhanced in all educational and media settings. It must be the correspondence language. Bear in mind, dear Muslims, that preserving one's identity does not deny the need to learn other languages. Yet, If all nations and citizens take pride in their national languages, we must be more eager to preserve Arabic as the language of the Quran and the primary vehicle for prayer in Islam as Allah, the Glorious, says in the Holy Book:"These are the Symbols (or Verses) of the perspicuous Book. We have sent it down as an Arabic Quran, in order that you may learn wisdom (you may understand."((12:1-2).
Dear Muslims,
Maids and servants must not be in charge of teaching our children and corrupting our beautiful language with their accents. Whoever comes to our country, must learn our language so as not to distort our children' language.
We ask Allah, The Exalted, to help us obey Him and those whom He has ordained us to obey in the Holy Quran:"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(4-59).
 
 













