addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Praise be to Allah. O Allah, we praise You, beseech You for help and forgiveness. Whomever Allah guides, no one can misguide. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant and Messenger of Allah. May peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his honorable family, his righteous companions and those who follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment.
O servants of Allah
I urge myself first and all of you to fear and obey Allah in observance of His Divine Revelation: "O mankind! Be dutiful to your Guardian-Lord, Who created you from a single person (Adam), and from him (Adam) He created his mate (Eve), and from them both scattered (like seeds) countless men and women: and fear Allah through Whom you demand your mutual rights, and do not cut the relation of the wombs (kinship). Surely, Allah is Ever an All-Watcher over you."(Al-Nisa':1).
O believers,
Woman enjoys a very special status in Islam. Our religion protects her rights, preserves her dignity, bestows upon her safety and security. Islam honors female offspring, beloved sister, loyal wife and caring mother. If Allah, the Exalted, grants you a daughter, you are responsible and legally bound to take proper care of her. If you raise her properly, care for her, educate her and teach her good ethics, she will be your gateway to Heaven. Indeed, Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, said:" Whoever has three daughters or three sisters or two daughters or two sisters and is very kind to them, demonstrates good company and fears Allah in their treatment will enter Paradise."
 
 
O fathers,
One of the ways in which Islam has honored woman is by giving her the right to choose her husband. If your daughter reaches the proper marriageable age, advise her when a potential suitor (in religion, ethics and so on) comes along. No one has the right to force her to marry someone she dislikes. There are many sayings of the Prophet Muhammad that support woman in this issue. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said:" A girl came to me and said "My father married me to his nephew, and I did not like this match. When Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, came she complained to him. He (pbuh) called on her father. The daughter said:"I have accepted what my father has arranged, but I wanted women to know that fathers have no right in their daughter's matters (i.e. they have no right to force a marriage on them."
O servants of Allah,
Islam honors wife greatly and reasserts her rights over her husband like his rights over her. Islam urges the husband to treat his wife in a good, kind and affectionate manner as Allah, the Exalted, says in his Book "Live with them on a footing of kindness and equity."(4:19). In his last sermon (farewell sermon), Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) addressed men saying: "Remember that you have taken them as your wives, only under Allah's trust and His Permission...Do treat your women well and be kind to them, for they are your partners and committed helpers."
Islam puts the responsibility of earning and providing for the wife over the husband. It even rewards him for doing so: "No amount you spend on your family seeking reward from Allah but he will reward you even if it is a bite of food that you put in your wife's mouth.
 
 
O servants of Allah,
When Allah, the Exalted, grants women good offspring, He enjoins that her children take care of her and look after her affairs as appreciation for her love and caring. In Islam, the mother is the most deserving person of her children's loyalty and good companionship. The Prophet Hadith (saying) that "Paradise lies at the feet the mothers" clearly demonstrated how much mothers are cherished in Islam. This hadith states that Muslims who respect their mothers and take care of them are destined for Paradise. Further, Abu Huraira reported that a person came to the Prophet (peace be upon him) and said: O Messenger of Allah, who among the people is most deserving of a fine treatment? The Prophet (pbhu) said: Your mother. He again asked: then who else? The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Your mother" (who deserves the best treatment from you). He said: Then who else. The Holy Prophet said: Your mother. He (again) said: Then who else? Thereupon He (pbuh) said: Then it is your father."
Islam urges woman to seek education and knowledge. She has the right to work and excel for self empowerment, and to have an active role in her country's development. Muslim women nowadays have advanced greatly and assumed leadership positions. May Allah be pleased with Aisha (the wife of the Prophet) who was so learned in the Quran and the Hadith that "Even senior companions of the Prophet used to consult her in resolving intricate issues".
O believers,
What a great role woman assumes in raising her children and instilling in them good ethics, thereby paving the way for a bright future for her country.
How wonderful it is to have a girl observing chastity, eager to pursue her education, and to help man hand in hand in societal development, and nation prosperity. How great it is to see her as a modest wife in charge of maintaining stability and bonding in her family. How delightful to see her open mindedness, her tolerance, her good practice of Islam and her obedience to her husband (unless he asks her to do prohibited matters).Prophet Muhammad (may Allah's blessings and peace be upon him) used to say:"After fear of Allah, a believer gains nothing better than a good wife who obeys him if he gives her a command. Pleases him as she looks at her, is true to him if he adjures her to do something and is faithful and sincere to him regarding his property in his absence.
May Allah, the Exalted help us obey Him and those He has commanded us to obey in his Divine Book:" O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority."(4:59)>
O Allah, make us of the people of the Quran and of those who practice what they recite. O Allah make us of the followers of the Noble Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him.













