addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE)  built 105 mosques in the UAE in 2010.  Other mosque and awqaf (religious endowments) projects are expected to be launched this year.
Mr.Mohamed Obaid AlMazrouei, GAIAE executive director for Islamic affairs noted that the prudent leadership keen interest in building and preserving mosques is reflected in GAIAE strategic plan. GAIAE is committed to do maintenance work on all mosques and upgrade their services. "To this end, GAIAE is currently touring mosques for inspection and assessment of their needs" Mr.AlMazrouei added. Further, GAIAE has obtained design and building permits for several new mosques and is in the process of inspecting the lands locations prior to beginning building projects.
Mr.AlMazrouei asserted that GAIAE makes periodical visits to inquire about the needs of mosques, shopping centers prayer rooms, main roads mosques and industrial compounds mosques. All needs are usually taken into consideration and met in accordance with GAIAE human, financial and administrative capabilities.
Further, GAIAE plans to renovate some awqaf (religious endowments) projects in Al Ain and the Western Region. "New awqaf projects will be launched soon" said Mr.Khaled AlNeyadi, GAIAE executive director for awqaf affairs. Indeed, tenders for two shopping centers in AlKasida and Asharej in Al Ain were awarded to an engineering consulting company. Another consulting company will manage the projects. Mr.AlNeyadi said that GAIAE has met all the requirements to issue design and building permits by Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council.
The 26.800 square meters shopping center project is in AlKasida in downtown Al Ain. Its has a 7400 square meters indoor parking. The ground and the mezzanine floors have a total of 6600 square meters. The shopping center has three floors, each has 12.800 square meters in area. The other 12000 square meters shopping center project is in Asharej. It has a 4300 square meters indoor parking, a 3400 square meters commercial ground floor and a 4300 square meters first residential floor.
The shopping center project in Zayed City in the Western Region is undergoing location assessment and is expected to get the official approval soon. 
The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) is updating and upgrading the "Mosque Lessons" book. The new edition is expected to be available in Ramadan.
Finally, Mr.AlMazrouei said that GAIAE has instructed mosques to use "safe" fridges to avoid any electrical shock incidents.













