addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praise be to Allah. O Allah, we beseech You, to accept and bless our well and abundant praises to you. All praise be to You, O Allah, for your infinite blessings and countless favors. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, the only God do we worship, Who says in His Divine Revelation, the Qur'an:" And the servants of (God) Most Gracious are those who walk on the earth in humility."(25:63). I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant and Messenger of Allah, the noblest of all mankind, the most worthy of the highest estimation of Allah. May peace and blessings be upon our Master and Prophet Muhammad, his noble family, his companions and all those who will follow them till the Day of Judgment.
O believers,
I urge myself first and all of you to fear and obey Allah, Exalted be He in glory and might Who says:"O you who believe! Fear Allah as He should be feared, and die not except in a state of Islam."(3:102).
O servants of Allah,
Shari'a (Islamic Law) considers the gift of life the most precious blessing of Allah. Indeed, Islamic regulations aim at ensuring the safety of human beings, protecting them from any harm and strictly prohibiting endangering or killing them. Allah, the Exalted, says:"If anyone killed a person not in retaliation of murder, or to spread mischief in the land - it would be as if he killed all mankind." (5:32).
Self-killing or suicide along with killing of innocent people are strictly forbidden in Islam. Allah, the Almighty, says in the Holy Qur'an:"And do not kill yourselves (nor kill one another). Surely, Allah is Most Merciful to you."(4:20). In order to observe this noble cause, Islam entrusted the authority in charge with the responsibility of laying down laws and issuing regulations to govern the conduct of people and protect human lives. It is, therefore, an Islamic legal duty to abide by these laws and regulations which fulfill Islamic principles. Allah, Exalted be he, says:"O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Muhammad, peace be upon him), and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority."(4:59).
Among those laws are the traffic laws applied all over the world. It is incumbent upon us to abide by these laws in compliance with Shari'a and  societal duties. Studies have proven that reckless driving practices are blamed for car accidents, disabling injuries and fatalities. Not only are you endangering yourselves but other people as well." Allah, Exalted be He, strictly prohibits it in the Holy Quran: "And do not throw yourselves into destruction." (2:195).
Many children have seen their lives shattered by losing the fathers in car accidents. They were looking forward to a happy life under his care. Many young men, who were dreaming about a bright future, passed away in car accidents. Many others lost their limbs and became disabled for the rest of their lives! Surely, the disabled and his family are experiencing daily pain. How tragic it is to lose beloved ones due to traffic laws violations and risky driving practices. A total of 7615 death in car accidents were recorded in the UAE in 2010. Statistics also showed that (9032) were injured and (826) died in the same year. Car accidents were blamed for properties and public utilities destruction as well as substantial waste of money.
O Muslims,
We have to acknowledge the magnitude of the problem and the related trauma. We have to hold ourselves accountable. Blaming fate and destiny for car accidents is a misinterpretation of the concept. Believing in Qada' wa Qadar (fate or destiny) means relying on Allah after taking the necessary precautions and abiding by the laws and regulations in force. Further, violations may result in civil, penal or criminal indictments. Allah, the Almighty,says:"Every soul will be (held) in pledge for its deeds."(74:38).
It is unconceivable that anyone of us would engage in reckless driving or illegal driving practices causing tragic accidents.
O servants of Allah,
It is our duty to be responsible for our driving practices and to prevent traffic accidents. The Messenger of Allah, peace be upon him, said:"Each one of you is a shepherd and each one is responsible for those under his care."
One of the root causes behind car accidents is the parents' attitude. They must raise their children as responsible citizens and instill in them human values such as caring for others, respecting their rights and avoiding any harm to them. Parents must also highlight the importance of abiding by the laws. They ought to be role models to their children in practicing safe and responsible driving habits, following speed limits and respecting traffic laws.
We ask Allah to protect all of us and help us obey Him and those He has commanded us to obey.













