addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















GAIAE board of directors agreed to co-sponsor Abu Dhabi International Sports Conference for Special Needs this year. The board meeting, which was presided over by HE Dr.Hamdan Musallam AlMazrouei, GAIAE chairman, overviewed a report on the religious institutions' role in the 2021 vision. GAIAE report was presented during Abu Dhabi Police second meeting on Safety Education.
Furthermore, the board was briefed on the progress of the Ministry of Justice proposed law relating to Qur'an memorization centers. The law aims at regulating the work of these centers so as to improve its performance. Among the regulations stipulated in this law are the building standards, and the teachers' qualifications.
The board was pleased with the positive feedback on the new English website in general and English Friday sermons in particular, noting that GAIAE has received several letters in this regards.
On the other hand, the board was briefed on the outcome of GAIAE meeting with officials of the Saudi Ministry of Hajj, and GAIAE requests and recommendations to facilitate UAE hajj for next year. It is to be noted that Saudi officials asserted that all needs will be studied by the authorities in charge.
The board members overviewed mosques' cleaning and maintenance work performed by Musanada. They expressed their full satisfaction with GAIAE mosques' supervision, cleanliness and maintenance. The board members lauded Abu Dhabi Executive board for their financial support and extended their gratitude to HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Chairman of Abu Dhabi Executive Council.
 
Dr.AlMazrouei, GAIAE chairman, expressed his happiness for GAIAE website earning the full grade in the government websites' evaluation conducted by the General Information Authority. He also applauded GAIAE IT department for abiding by website international standards.
The board members overviewed feasibility studies for several waqf projects in Abu Dhabi, Al-Ain and the Northern Region and costs of additional parking spaces for certain buildings. They noted that rents in certain areas have decreased requiring review of some projects underway. Therefore, the board approved GAIAE executive director's recommendations to update and review projects' feasibility studies every six months.













