addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
Praise be to Allah, Lord of the Universe, the Only Ruling Judge of the Day of Judgment . I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, the only God Who has no partner. I also bear witness that Allah, the All-Wise Judge, will givethe quickest best reward to the God-fearing and the fastest great loss for the transgressor. In His divine revelation, Allah, the Exalted, says:"Indeed, by the Lord, you will certainly be resurrected, then you will be told (the truth) of all that you did; and that is easy for Allah."(64:7).
I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and his messenger, the most honorable of all mankind.
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O dear believers,
I urge myself first and all of you to fear and obey Allah, the All-Mighty, the Exalted, to get the reward of the Day of Judgment and avoid any disobedience to him for fear of His punishment as the Exalted says:" O mankind! Be afraid of your Lord (by keeping your duty to Him and avoiding all evil), and fear ( the coming) of a Day when no father can avail aught for his son, nor a son avail aught for his father. Verily, the Promise of Allah is true, let not then this (worldly) present life deceive you, nor let the chief deceiver (Satan) deceive you about Allah."(31:33). 
O Muslims,
Allah, Glory be to Him, says in the Holy Qur'an:"And the Trumpet will be blown, and all those who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth will swoon away, except him whom Allah wills. Then, it will be blown the second time, and behold they will be standing, looking on (waiting). And the earth will shine with the light of its Lord, and the book will be placed (open), and the Prophets and the witnesses will be brought forward, and it will be judged between then with truth, and they will not be wronged."(39:68-70). In these revealed verses, Allah, the Exalted, reminds us of the Great Day when people will be judged. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, related that Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:"Mankind will be gathered on the Day of Judgment, barefoot, naked, uncircumcised, and having nothing with them." I said," O messenger of Allah, will men and women be together looking at each other?" He said, "O Aisha, the occasion will be too grave and terrifying for them to be at ease to look at each other." On the Day of Judgment, the sun will be so unbearable that it almost touches the heads of everyone. It will be so close that everyone will be submerged in their own sweat. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:" Do you know how Allah will gather all the first and the last (people) in one level place where an observer will be able to see (all) of them and they will be able to hear the announcer, and the sun will come near to them. Some people will say;"Don't you see in what condition we are and the state we have reached?"
Dear servants of Allah,
Belief in the Day of Judgment is one of the fundamentals of faith. Indeed, it is compulsory on all Muslim. The Noble Prophet (pbuh) used to emphasize and reiterate this advice to his companions. The Prophet (pbuh) said:"He who believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him be hospitable to his guest; and he who believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him maintain kinship (blood ties); and he who believes in Allah and the Last Day, must speak good or remain silent."Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) also said:"He who believes in Allah and the Last Day must be good to his neighbor."
Belief in the Day of Judgment urges Muslims to prepare for this day by promptly following the teaching of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh). In His Holy Revelation, Allah, the All-Truth, revealed to us how the belief in the Last day helps us follow and practice the Sunnah. Allah, the Almighty, The Exalted, says:"Indeed in the Messenger of Allah (Muhammad pbuh) you have a good example to follow for him who hopes for (the Meeting with) Allah and the Last Day, and remembers Allah much."(33:21).
O Muslims,
There are great benefits and virtues in the belief in the Last Day. The most important is to endeavor to obey Allah and avoid any disobedience to him. Mankind will be judged on all their deeds no matter how small or big there are. Indeed, Allah, the Glorious, says:"And We shall set up Balances of justice on the Day of Resurrection, then none will be dealt with unjustly in anything. And if there be the weight of a mustard seed, We will bring it. And sufficient are We to take account."(91:47).
The greatest merit of belief and thorough reflection about the Last Day is to make one prepare for that Day, by performing good deeds, and abstaining from sinful acts and fearing His punishment.
On that great day, Allah shall compensate everyone for the mischief that has befallen him. Conversely, Allah shall punish those who abused other people's properties and their wives' honor or committed bloodshed. Allah's messenger said:" Allah decrees the (Hell) Fire and debars Paradise for the one who usurps the right of a believer by taking a false oath." One man asked 'O Messenger, even if it should be for any insignificant thing?' He said:" Even if it be a stick of the Arak tree (the tree from which miswak sticks are taken). He said it three times.Fear and obey Allah, O servants of Allah, and monitor and judge your deeds before the Day of Judgment. Allah, the Almighty, shall judge us on all what we say and do. Be prompt in doing good deeds and avoid any mischief. Allah, the Glorious, the Exalted,says:"There is no good in most of their secret talks save (in) him who orders charity (sadaqa) and good and righteous deeds or conciliation between mankind, and he who does this, seeking the pleasure of Allah, We shall give him great reward."(4:114). O Allah, guide us to strive for the day of Judgment, O Allah we seek Your help to do good deeds, and we supplicate You to reward us with Paradise, and to make us among those Whom you favor. O Allah guide us to obey You, and those You have ordained us to obey in your Divine Book:"O you who believe, Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Muhammad pbuh), and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority."(4:59).O Allah, make us among the people of the Qur'an and those who benefit from what You have taught us and make us among the followers of the Sunnah of the Noble Prophet (pbub).SECOND SERMON O believers,I urge you to fear and obey Allah and believe in the Day of Judgment. This belief makes Muslim well-balanced, joyful, and relieved. It makes him thankful to Allah in prosperity and patient in times of distress. The belief in the Last Day makes Muslim hasten to do good deeds to prepare for the Great Day and be rewarded by Allah, the Glorious, the Exalted. There are a lot of good deeds that makes Muslim closer to Paradise;it is prayer, worship, supplicating Allah, children's good upbringing, treating one's neighbor well, honest transactions (selling and buying), perfecting one's work and following Allah's commandments and the Sunnah of the Prophet (pbuh) in each and every step we take in this life as Allah, the Exalted, says:"And fear a day when you will be returned to Allah and every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and will not be treated unjustly."(2:281).













