addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















A delegation from Mohammed V University in Rabat paid a visit to Dr. Hamdan M. AlMazrouie, GAIAE chairman. The delegation was headed by Dr.Wael Benjelloun,
university president, accompanied by Dr.Abu Tajj Idris, university vice-president, Dr.Abdelrrahim Benhadda, dean of School of Literature and Humanities, and Dr.Fakhida Regrari, in charge of programs and curricula. Present during the visit were Dr.Mohammed Alkaabi, GAIAIE director general, and Dr.Bassam AlZein, Advisor to GAIAE chairman.
Dr.AlMazrouei said that Mohammed V University in Abu Dhabi is a valuable addition to the higher education sector in the UAE. With the vital cooperation of Abu Dhabi Educational Council, UAE nationals pursuing their education in Islamic studies will assume leading positions as imams, preachers and Islamic scholars. Dr.AlMazrouei expressed his hope that highly qualified graduates will fill the needs for more national Islamic scholars interacting with their society and meeting its religious needs.
Dr.AlMazrouei stated that GAIAE has made noticeable achievements in the past few years which come in line with the directives of UAE prudent leadership, and the legacy of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
The delegation was briefed on GAIAE accomplishments such as the unified Friday sermon, GAIAE religious publications, GAIAE website which has achieved full grade among federal websites, Manar Al-Islam, a monthly religious and cultural magazine, in addition to religious events for children aimed primarily to open up to other religions and cultures.
Dr.Benjelloun, Mohammed V University president, expressed his thanks and appreciation for the visit, and stressed that the university is keen to preserve Islamic true values and teachings, and to introduce its essence to non-Muslims in a world which is becoming more interconnected. He was pleased that both GAIAE and the university share the same vision.













