addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















 His Highness General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces inaugurated on Friday (4/8) Sheikha Salamah bint Butti Mosque in Al Ain. His Highness was accompanied by HH Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Ruler's Representative in the Eastern Region, and HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs and several high rank officials including Dr.Hamdan AlMazrouei, GAIAE chairman. Present also were representatives of "AlDar" which developed the mosque project.
Their Highnesses and a large group of worshippers performed the first prayer in the mosque which is considered an important landmark in the city. Dr. Mohammed AlKaabi, GAIAE director general was the imam and the presenter of the Friday sermon.
The mosque, which is located in downtown Al Ain, has an area of 17.500 square meters and a capacity of 5000 worshippers including a women prayer room designed for 640 worshippers.
It is worth mentioning that the mosque is equipped with state-of-the-art environment friendly automatic air conditioning system, the first of its kind in the city. It is also equipped with a modern lighting system with color changing effect in special religious occasions such as Ramadan and religious holidays. The window design maximizes the diffusion of natural light. The mosque has a lighting system that gradually increases the light level as we approach the mihrab.
The architectural design of the mosque blends the modern with the traditional. It is in harmony with the surrounding traditional features. The mosque exterior color is quasi similar to the sand color in Al Ain desert.
Housing for the imam and the muezzin are adjacent to the mosque. The mosque provides parking for 200 cars which seems disproportionate with the capacity of the mosque. However, as it is located in the souk area, a study estimated that 80% of the worshippers will walk to the mosque.













