addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Dr.Mohammed AlKaabi, GAIAE director general, lauded the eagerness of the UAE prudent leadership to support the building of mosques, in view of its vital religious and social roles. He added that GAIAE is pursuing its strategic plan aimed at building new mosques and encouraging philanthropists to contribute to this endeavor.
It is to be noted that GAIAE Ajman office has been approached by several contributors interested in building mosques or renovating old ones. Through these contributions, Dr.AlKaabi added "I am pleased to announce that 19 new mosques will be completed in Ajman this year. These mosques will have a total capacity of 18912 worshippers."
Mr.Obeid Al Zaabi, GAIAE Ajman office director, outlined the projects underway:

H.H. Shaikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Ajman Ruler, made a generous contribution to build a mosque with a capacity of 1360 worshippers in Mushairef.
In Al Jurf area, a mosque for 1770 worshippers is made possible through the contribution by Shaikh Rashid bin Humaid Al Nuaimi. Another mosque with a capacity of 4000 was paid for by Mr.Mohammad Ramadan. Mr.Yahya Al Ribasa contributed to building a mosque for 650 worshippers. Another mosque with the 

same capacity is made possible through a contribution by Mr. Hashem Al Mueini. 500 worshippers mosque by Mr.Sultan AlMatroushi, a mosque for 300 worshippers through a donation by Mr.Mohammad Helal bin Qabesh and a mosque with a capacity of 615 worshippers made possible by the contribution of Mr. Hasan Humaid Al Shamsi.

In the Naemiyah area, two new mosques are being built; the first with a capacity of 650 worshippers, and the second for 1260 worshippers through the generous donation of Mr.Fatima Al-Saeidi.
Mr.Abdullah Al Mu'alla gave a generous contribution to built a mosque for 360 worshippers, whereas another mosque with a capacity of 260 worshippers was made possible by the contribution of Mr.Majed AlNuaimi. Both are located in the Al Helio area.
In the Rashidiah area, one mosque underway with a capacity of 2830 worshippers is paid for by Yousef bin Nasser.
Two new mosques are expected to open in the Hamidieh area; a mosque for 450 worshippers made possible by the contribution of Sheikha Alia bint Suheil Al Maktoum, and another for 570 worshippers through a contribution by Mr.Obaid Ali Al Muhairi.
In Al Muwayhat area, a contribution by Mr.Ishaq Mohammad Sherif made the building of a mosque for 1447 worshippers possible. Another mosque with a capacity of 370 worshippers is being built through the contribution of Mr.Abdul Rahman Abdullah Al Hashemi.
Al Manama will also have a mosque that can accommodate 470 worshippers and Musaira is to add a mosque with a capacity of 400 worshippers. Both are being built through generous contributions.














