addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
All Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Universe, The Creator Who made everything with ultimate justice and equitability. All praise be to You, O Allah, for guiding us to Islam and teaching us the Qur'an. We bear witness that there is no god worthy of worship but Allah, the only God Who has no partner. Exalted be He Who says in His divine Book:"God intends For you ease: He does not want to make things difficult for you."(2:185). All praise be to Allah, Exalted be He, to Whom belongs everything in the heavens and the earth, the All-Generous, the All-Giving.  I also bear witness that our master Muhammad, the servant and messenger of Allah, is the best of mankind who is favored by Allah over other prophets. May the peace of Allah be upon our Prophet who said:"God did not send me to be harsh, or cause harm. But he sent me to teach and make things easy."
Dear brothers and sisters.
Prophet Muhammad has defined for us many Islamic concepts, He (pbuh) taught, by his own example, how to fulfill the duty to Allah and to obey Him. Our prophet had exemplary good deeds. He (pbuh) relieved Muslims from their problems and resolved thecrises. O Allah, bestow Your Blessings upon our Prophet, His relatives, His noble Companions, and all those who follow them with humility till the Day of Judgment.
O believers,
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted Be He, Who says in his divine book: "And for those who fear God, He will make their path easy."(65:4).
O believers,
One of the principles of Islam is to maintain balance and moderation in thought and action. Islam provides an entire life structure that teaches us to follow the middle ground between physical and spiritual needs. Thus, Islam is our "Middle Path" in life; Muslims must not lean toward one extreme or another; they pray and seek guidance from Allah, but they also tend to mundane matters of life. They shun extremism.  Balance and moderation are key in Islamic creed and acts of worship, in Islamic law and in interpersonal relations and in ethics. Abundant are the Quranic verses and the sayings of the Prophet (pbuh) that prompt mankind to be moderate and equitable. Both qualities represent the essence of our religion and are clearly stated in the Holy Quran, as Allah, the Exalted, says:"Thus, have We made of you an Ummah justly balanced." (2:143). Also, Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:"This religion is strong, so go through it gently."
O servants of Allah,
Please note, dear Muslims, that Islam recognizes Fitrah which is the natural state or desire, and considers our physical and emotional needs and limitations. Indeed, Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) outlines the defining qualities of moderation. Anas bin Malek, may Allah have mercy on him, narrated that:"Some companions of God's Messenger resolved to engage in worship; one said that he would pray all night; another said that he would always fast and never stop; the third said that he would never marry and never have any relations with women. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) heard about them and said." I swear by God that I fear God and realize my responsibilities to Him more than you, but this is my way: I fast sometimes and sometimes I do not fast; I pray during the night and sleep as well; and marry women. Anyone who does not like my way has no relation with me."
Allah, Exalted be He, calls upon us to spend on ourselves and in charity: "Believe in God and His Messenger, and spend (in charity) out of you who believe and spend - for them is a great reward."(57:7). However, Allah gave mankind a golden rule of moderation between spending lavishly and holding back our wealth out of stinginess. Allah, the Exalted, says:"Do not hold back altogether out of miserliness, nor spend without restraint and exhaust your wealth, thus becoming blameworthy and destitute."(17:29).
Moderation is an Islamic principle in every walk of life, including eating, drinking and dressing up. Allah, the Exalted, has bestowed His gifts upon us, so His generosity must be shown upon our person." Allah says in the Holy Quran:"O you who believe! Eat of the good things that We have provided for you, and be grateful to Allah."(2:172). Nevertheless, Allah, Exalted be He, prohibits Muslims from being thrifty to the extreme or spending lavishly on food and drink:"Eat and drink: but waste not by excess, for God loves not  the wasters." (7:31). Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), who had moderate eating habits, said:"No man fills a post worse than his stomach. But if he wants to fill his stomach, then he should divide his stomach into three parts and should fill one third part of the belly with food, another third with drink and leave one third empty for easy breathing." Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) ordered us to follow balance and moderation as he said:"Moderation is the best of actions."
Dear brothers and sisters,
Islam teaches us to be moderate in our speech and action and in all aspects of our mundane life and worship. This will be our pathway to happiness in this world and the Day of Judgment.
May Allah help us obey Him and those he Has ordained us to be in the Holy Quran:"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those (Muslims) charged with authority among you."(4:59).
We implore you, O Allah, to make the glorious Qur'an the joy of our hearts. Make us, O Allah, of those who adhere to its commands and follow from life and sayings of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh).
                                                            Second Sermon
O believers,
We mark today the anniversary of the Unification of the UAE Armed Forces. We pay tribute to them and implore Allah, Exalted be He, to reward them for their national achievements and their successful regional and international missions. It is our duty to renew allegiance to them and to support the advancement of the armed forces. We must be grateful to them for ensuring national sovereignty. We would not have lived today in prosperity, peace and stability without their sacrifices. As Prophet Abraham, may Allah have peace on him, said:"My Lord, Make this a City of Peace."(2:126).
 













