addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
Praise be to Allah, the All-Knowing, the Revealer of the Truth of this World and the Hereafter, The Compassionate, the Merciful. Praise to Allah, the Only Creator Worthy of praise ; whatever is in the heavens and on earth declares His Praises and Glory. We Beseech You, O Allah, for help and guidance. We bear witness that there is no god but Allah, the only God Who Has no partner. Praise be to Allah, Lord of the Universe, Who has authority over everything. I bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant and messenger of Allah, the noblest of all mankind, the greatest  and the most favored of the Messengers of Allah, who guided us to the straight path, and lead us to enjoin the good and forbid the evil. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, the best the best performer of prayers, the best worshipper who taught us the best praises of Allah, the Exalted. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon his family, his companions and all of those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O brothers and sisters,
I call upon all of us to be pious and obey Allah, the Exalted, Who says in His Book:"So Fear Allah; and Allah teaches you. And Allah is All-Knower of everything." (2:282).
O believers,
Al Fatihah (Opening) is one of the earliest complete Surat (Chapter in the Quran)  revealed by the Creator of the Universe.It is not only the opening (prelude) of the Holy Quran for Allah, Exalted be He, has made it a pathway to His infinite blessings and countless bounties. Indeed, Ibn Abbas reported that the Prophet (pbuh) said:"While Jibril (Alayhi assalam) was sitting with the Prophet, he heard a sound above him and raised his head. He said, "This is a door of heaven which has been opened today and. 'He gave the greeting and said. 'Give the good news of two lights which have never been brought to any prophet before you: Fatihah of the Book and the last verses of Surat Al-Baqarah. You will not recite a letter of them without being rewarded for it."
The first half of Surat Al Fatihah is a declaration of monotheism and the second half of the Surat is the most important dua(supplication) a person could ever make. The Surat contains seven verses (ayat), and it was revealed to Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in Mecca. This Surat has many great names which are indications of its importance, it is named Al Fatihah, the Opener, because it opens the Book (the Holy Quran) and by it the recitation in prayer commences. It is also named al-kafiyah meaning the Sufficient and al-Wafiyah, the Fullillment. Other names are as-Shafia which means the Cure, ar-Ruqya i.e. the Spiritual Cure. It is also called assab'u -l-Mathani because it is composed of seven verses that are frequently recited before every unit of prayer (raka'a). the Mother of the Book and the Mother of the Quran are other names. Surath Al Fatihah is also called the Great Quran. Prophet Muhammad said "AlHamd Li llah (al Fatihah)  (praise be to Allah) is the Mother of the Quran, the Mother of the Book and the Seven most opt repeated verses."
Allah, the Almighty, chose Al Fatihah to be recited  before every raka't (unit of prayer), which is another evidence of its importance. It is therefore, repeated at least 17 times a day during the five ritual prayers. Prayer is invalid if al Fatihah is not recited. Allah, the Exalted, the All-Glory began the Surah by two of His Noble Attributes; "The Compassionate, the Merciful" as a proof of His immense mercy, a concept on which are based both the Holy Quran and the spiritual relation between Exalted Allah and His servants. Indeed, Abu Huraira (may Allah be pleased with him) reported: I heard Allah's Messenger (peace be upon Him) saying:" Allah Created mercy in one hundred parts, and He retained with Him ninety nine parts, and He has sent down upon the earth one part, and it is because of this one part that there is mutual love among the creation so much so that the animal lifts up its hoof from its young one, fearing that it might harm it."
O believers,
The practical significance of the Surat is that Allah, the Exalted, guides us to be merciful to all people around us. Mercy must me an essential element of a husband's attitude towards his wife and children. Neighbors must also be treated with mercy, and the same applies to an employee with his/her co-workers.
Moreover, Surat Al Fatihah plays another remarkable role as it reveals all the values mentioned in the Holy Quran; Praise and Glorification of Allah, the Exalted, Monotheism, Mercy, Allah as the Only Creator worthy of worship, seeking the help and guidance of the Creator.
It is incumbent upon every Muslim to appreciate this noble Surat, and to reflect on the significance and virtues of each of its verses. Indeed, Surat Al Fatihah is considered the greatest in the Holy Quran; Abu Sa'id bin Al-Mu'alla (may Allah be pleased with him) reported: The Messenger of Allah (peace be upon him) said, "Shall I teach you the greatest Surat in the Quran.. .""It is Surat Al Fatihah which is the seven oft repeated Ayat and the Great Quran which is given to me."
Opening the gates between Allah, the Almighty, and His servant is another great virtue of Surat Al Fatihah. The Prophet (peace be upon him) said:"Allah ,the Exalted, said,'I have divided the prayer into two halves between Me and My servant. A half of it is for Me and a half for My servant, and My servant shall acquire what he asked for.''If  he says. 'All praise and thanks be to Allah, The Lord of existence .'Allah says,'My servant has praised me.'.When the servant says, The Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.' Allah says.'My servant has glorified Me.' When he says, Master of the Day of Judgment.' Allah says,'My servant has glorified Me.' When he says,'You (alone) we worship, and You (alone) we ask for help.' Allah says,'This is between Me and My servant, and My servant shall acquire what he sought.' When he says,'Guide us to the straight path. The way of those whom You have granted Your grace, not (the way) of those who earned Your anger, or of those who went astray', Allah says,'This is for My servant, and My servant shall acquire what he has asked for.'
Surat Al Fatihah instills in the Muslim's soul the value of worshipping and obeying Allah, the assurance that he/she is the creation of the All-Mighty who will be the Judge of all Judges in the Day of Judgment.
Another virtue is its ability to cure Muslim and to relief his pain and suffering. Abu Saeed al-Khudri narrates that while on a journey we halted at a place. A girl came to us and said: The chief of this tribe has been stung by a scorpion and our men are not present, is there anybody amongst you who can recite something upon him to treat him?" Then, one of our men went along with her although we did not think that he knew any such treatment. However, our friend went to the chief and recited something upon him and the chief was cured. Thereupon, the chief gave him thirty sheep and  gave us all milk to drink. When he returned, we asked our friend:" Did you know anything to recite upon him to cure him?" He said:"No, I only recited Umm al-Kitab (i.e.Surat al Fatihah) upon him." We said do not do anything until we reach Madinah. Upon our arrival, we narrated this to the Prophet (pbuh), whereupon he remarked:" How did he come to know that Al Fatihah can be used as a cure? Prophet Muhammad said this in astonishment "Distribute your remark amongst yourselves and allot a share for me as well."
O Allah, We implore You to open the gates of Your mercy and blessings. We beseech you for help to be obedient to You and to all those (Muslims) You have ordained us to obey in your Glorious Book:"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(4:59).
We implore you, O Allah, to make the Quran the joy of our hearts a. O Allah, make us of the people who recite its words and apply its ruling. Make us among those who follow the noble Sunnah of Prophet Muhammad.
 
 
                                                Second Sermon
O servants of Allah, I call upon all of you to be pious, and to reflect on two Attributes  of Allah, the Almighty, in Surat Al Fatihah which are the Compassionate, the Merciful for Allah mercy is never-ending. This Surat guides Muslims with pure hearts to be merciful. Our devotion to Allah is due to the fact that He is the Creator of everything in this world and in the heavens, the Maker of all creators and mankind. I urge you, dear Muslims, to read Surat Al Fatihah with open heart and mind to unravel its meanings and apply its deeds and words. I call upon you to follow the right path of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) Whom Allah addressed in His Book:"And We have sent you (O Muhammad) not, but as a mercy for all creators."(21:107).













