addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) made arrangements with the Saudi Ministry of Hajj to use the metro by all UAE pilgrims moving between the Holy Sites. To facilitate this new step, it has been decided to move the UAE hajj and official convoy offices in Mina, Arafat and muzdalifah to a location close to metro station no.(2). It is to be noted that both UAE nationals and expatriates will take the metro. Each ticket is worth 250 Riyals and covers the whole transportation costs during pilgrimage.
These decisions have been made during the official visit to Saudi Arabia by Dr.Mohammed AlKaabi, GAIAEdirector general, Mr.Mohammed AlMazrouei, GAIAE director for Islamic Affairs and Mr.Obeid Hamad AlZaabi, GAIAE Ajman office director and UAE official hajj convoy deputy director.
 The delegation met with H.E. Mr.hatem Hasan Kadi,Undersecretary, Saudi Ministry of Hajj, Dr.Sahl Al Sabban, the Deputy Minister of Hajj for Pilgrim Affairs, Projects, and the Holy Sites and other officials.
The need to have guides with all pilgrims to facilitate metro usage was also discussed .Metro maps and schedules will be soon sent to GAIAE for pre hajj orientation. Other logistic matters such as the number of tents needed, the required area were also tackled. GAIAE delegation was reasserted that there will be no rise in prices this year.
The delegation requested installation of an air conditioning system in Mina tents and have Tawafah institution conduct maintenance works on both air conditioners and restrooms for all UAE pilgrims in Mina and Arafah.
On this occasion, GAIAE reiterates the need to accommodate a reasonable number of pilgrims in each tent ,and calls upon all travel agents for Hajj to make the required hajj arrangements as soon as possible . GAIAE welcomes all complains before and during pilgrimage.
A workshop to coordinate the efforts of the Saudi Ministry of Hajj, the Mutawef Institute and the UAE Official hajj convoy is to be held in the coming future.













