addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Dr.Hamdan AlMazrouei, GAIAE Chairman, extends his most sincere congratulations to His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, for being named the Sheikh Rashid Award's Humanitarian Personality of the Year. Praise and thanks are due to Almighty Allah for bestowing upon the UAE country and people the blessing of Sheikh Khalifa prudent leadership.
Dr.AlMazrouei said that selecting His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed for the award was in great appreciation for his rich contributions to the charitable and humanitarian work in the UAE and the international arena. He added that His Highness Sheikh Khalifa was nominated for the award by international, Arab and Islamic humanitarian and charity organizations and institutions. His Highness Sheikh Khalifa is honored as an international role model for his dedication to charitable work that almost spans the world.
Dr.AlMazrouei noted that Sheikh Khalifa acquired a lot of good personal traits and leadership qualities from the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan, may Allah bless his soul, and continues to build on the legacy of his late father in the development and empowerment of the UAE.
Dr.AlMazrouei expressed his pride and honor to be blessed with the visionary leader who is endowed with wisdom. He congratulates the UAE people and all honorable officials, and implore Allah, the Exalted, to bless Sheikh Khalifa with good health and to protect him for the sake of his people and his country.
Dr.AlKaabi, GAIAE director general said: His Highness Sheikh Khalifa descends from an honorable family known for its humanitarian work.
Dr.Mohammed AlKaabi, GAIAE director general, said that High Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, descends from a noble family known for its love and devotion to the welfare of the people. His Highness Sheikh Khalifa followed in the footsteps of his father's very strong leadership capabilities and humanitarian personality. His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed continues to pay special attention to help and rescue needed people all over the world, regardless of their religion following the teachings of Islam which advocates helping all people created by Almighty Allah.
Dr. AlKaabi  added that His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  has a keen interest in promoting the welfare of his people. His Highness plays a very active role in strengthening the UAE and developing a prosperous country. His commitment, motivation and generosity are great personal and leadership qualities for UAE generations to follow.













