addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) is putting together a preaching plan for the summer holidays and the Holy Month of Ramadan. The most useful remarks and suggestions of the preachers and the public will be embodied in the plan. GAIAE welcomes all public suggestions in this regard via its website www.awqaf.gov.ae.
Mr.Mohammed Obeid AlMazrouei, GAIAE executive director for Islamic affairs, stressed the valuable role of both male and female preachers in calling people to Allah through the tolerant and moderate teachings of Islam. Mr.AlMazrouei also emphasized the importance of preaching through the media, lectures in mosques and community organizations, and Friday sermons.
GAIAE executive director for Islamic affairs was speaking during a workshop organized by GAIAE Preaching Department in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior. The workshop, which was held at Abu Dhabi Police Officers' Club, witnessed a large turnout of preachers from GAIAE offices in the UAE as well as preachers of the Ministry of Interior. Present during the workshop was Captain Ahmed Ghareeb Al Mansouri, Director of Community Awareness Branch at the Department of Community Policing, Headquarters of Abu Dhabi police.
Mr.AlMazrouie extended his thanks and appreciation to UAE prudent leadership for the continuous support. He also conveyed his greetings and appreciation to His Highness Lieutenant General Shaikh Saif Bin Zaid Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, for activating the strategic partnership between the Ministry of Interior and GAIAE.
Mr.AlMazrouei  said that effective and successful method of preaching requires perceptive understanding of Islam, the ability to communicate and persuade people in a friendly and acceptable way. He also stressed that it is beneficial for a preacher to be sensitive to people's problems and agonies in addition to being a role model through good morals and manners. Mr.AlMazrouie  emphacized the importance of collaboration between preachers, and between preachers and GAIAE.
Mr.Talib  Al Shehhi, GAIAE Preaching Department Director, announced that GAIAE is organizing Islamic courses covering most Islamic sciences in the summer holidays in addition to others courses in Ramadan to be announced later.
Captain Ahmed Ghareeb Al Mansouri  addressed the need fo a special preaching program for delinquent juveniles in reform facilities that addresses their moral deviation and transgression.













