addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
Praise be to Allah, who has chosen Prophets and Messengers from among his servants and made them the best examples to be followed by Mankind. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God Who has no partner.     He, the Almighty has perfected his blessing by choosing Islam as a religion and completed His favor by sending Prophets and Messengers. I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and his Messenger. The chain of Prophets and Divine Messages has been completed by his mission. His Lord raised him up to the upper heavens, endowed him with a lofty station of praise and glory and  granted him Al-Kawthar fountain (river in Paradise). May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, who says: "And for those who fear God, He will make their path easy."(65:4).
O believers!
The biography of the Prophet with its significance and lessons entails us to derive from it whatever benefit us in our worldly life and the Hereafter. Allah, the Almighty says: "Thus, very truly, the narration of their stories is a lesson for those who are endowed with discretion and understanding and so heed admonition." (12:111).
Al-Isra' and Al-Mi'raj are among the many miracles of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh). He (pbuh) was taken for a journey by night from Al-Masjid-al-Haram (at Makkah) to the farthest mosque (in Jerusalem). Allah, Exalted be He, says: "Highly exalted is He who carried His servant, Muhammad, by night from the Sacred Mosque at Makkah to Al-Aqsa Mosque at Jerusalem, the surroundings of which We have blessed to show him something of Our wondrous signs. Indeed, it is He who is All-Hearing, the All-Seeing. " (17:1). Thereafter, he (pbuh) was raised up to the upper heavens until he reached the heavenly Lot-Tree beyond which none may pass. Allah, the Almighty says: "and yet, very truly, he saw him in a second descent, high near the heavenly Lot-Tree of uttermost bound, near which is the Garden of the heavenly abode. Behold! The Lot-Tree became suffused with that heavenly brilliancy which suffused it. The Prophet's sight did not waver nor exceed any limit. It was then that he behld some of the greatest signs of his Lord." (53:13-18).
O Muslims,
        The Journey of Al-Isra' and Al-Mi'raj was a special honor and gift from Allah, the Almighty to His Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) due to the Prophet's patience towards the hardships he faced; and as a divine support towards the Prophet's endurance to the sorrows of the death of his wife Khadijah and his uncle; and to raise his rank after suffering in Makkah and Al-Ta'if. This miracle is a reminder for Muslims that relief comes after patience and salvation comes after sorrows and whosoever resorted back to his Lord and attaches his heart to Him, never will he be among the losers.
        Among the lessons that can be derived from the miracle of Al-Isra' and Al-Mi'raj is the importance paid by Islam towards purifying the hearts and filling them with Iman (faith). This is clearly emphasized in the event of splitting the breast of the Prophet (pbuh) before the Journey of Al-Isra' and Al-Mi'raj. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "The roof of my house was opened while I was in Makkah, and Jibril came down and opened my chest, then he washed it with Zamzam water. Then he brought a vessel of gold filled with wisdom and faith, and poured it into my chest, then he closed it up. Then he took me by the hand and took me up to the lowest heaven." Therefore, we should exert our utmost efforts to purify our hearts, elevate our spiritual level and perfect our manners since man can't attain success or elevate his status except through having a sound heart full of faith, following the straight path.
O believer!
        In the journey of Al-Isra' and Al-Mi'ra, the high status and the honored rank of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) among the Prophets was clearly manifested when he led the prophets in the prayer performed in Bait Al-Maqdis. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "thereafter, I entered Bait Al-Maqdis where all the Prophets (Peace and Blessings of Allah be upon them all) were assembled and Jibril forwarded me and I led the prayer, then I was taken up to the heaven."      
        This incident invites the followers of the Prophet to enjoin coexistence, tolerance, love and peace with others since all the Prophets were brothers and sent with the same message. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "All the Prophets are paternal brothers; their mothers are different, but their religion is one."
O Servants of Allah,
        During the Journey of Al-Mi'raj, the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) witnessed some scenes that urged us to constantly perform the prayers and compete with one another in doing righteous deeds. They also warned us against becoming heedless towards the acts of obedience as well as committing major sins and unlawful acts. The Prophet (pbuh) also witnessed other scenes that conveyed glad tidings for the believers. Ibn Abbas reported that when the Prophet (pbuh) was taken to the heavens for the Mi'raj, he passed by a Prophet and two Prophets with whom were their people, a Prophet and two Prophets with whom was a group of people, and a Prophet and two Prophets with whom was nobody till he passed by a great multitude (of people). He asked. "Who is this?" He was told, "Moses and his people, but raise your head and see." He said, "I saw a great multitude (of people) that had plugged the horizon from this side barricaded the horizon from that side." He was told, "These are your Ummah and apart from these there are seventy thousand of your Ummah who will enter paradise without any accounting."
We shall give thanks to Allah for being among the blessed Ummah of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh). We shall also be true followers of his examples and Sunnah. We implore the Almighty Allah to make us among those who will enter paradise without being held accountable or receive punishment. May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
 
Second Sermon
The journey of Al-Isra' and Al-Mi'raj emphasized that great rewards and everlasting delights will be granted to every goodness done by man in all walks of life. If the man restrains his tongue and utilizes it in the remembrance of Allah, he will be granted  high status in paradise. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "I met Ibrahim on the Night journey (Al-Isra'), and he said to me: 'O Muhammad, convey my greetings to your Ummah, and tell them that Paradise has a vast plain of pure soil and sweet water. It is a plain leveled land. A plant will grow there by just uttering: Subhan-Allah, Al-hamdu lillah, La ilaha illallah and Allahu Akbar (Glory be to Allah; praise be to Allah; there is no true god except Allah; and Allah is Greatest)."













