addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
Praise be to Allah, who has created the people and urged them to maintain family bonds and ties. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God Who has no partner. He, the Almighty has invited his servants to increase their Iman (faith) through visiting the sick and the neighbors. People can attain happiness through Iman and success through the pleasure of Allah, glory be to Him, and certainly Allah's forgiveness and mercy is far better than any worldly gains. I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and his Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, who says: "O humankind! Be ever God-fearing, conscious of your Lord who created all of you from a single soul and from it created its mate, and from them both spread abroad many men and women. So fear God, in whose name you ask consideration of one another. And, therefore, be dutiful to kindred. For, indeed, ever is God vigilant over all of you."(4:1).
O believers!
        Allah, Exalted be He, has created man by his nature on the love of having social relations; he lives with the people, meets them, keeps in touch with them, lives cordially with them, learns from their experiences and trials. Allah, the Almighty says: "Indeed, We have created all of you from a single male and female. Moreover, We have made you peoples and tribes, so that you may come to know one another." The best aspect among the many aspects of social interaction is to maintain family ties. They increase one's livelihood, prolong the life and maintain the bonds of love between the people. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "the swiftest way of obtaining good deeds is the (act of) maintaining the ties of kinship to the extent that it is possible that a family can be wicked, but their money and their numbers will increase if they observe the ties of kinship."
Friday prayers and congregational prayers are among the best examples of the religious and social interaction. People are gathered in Allah's mosques for the sake of obeying Him as well as listening to the remembrances of Allah, the Almighty. Therefore, they become more affectionate, their hearts find solace in the worship of Allah, befriend one another and increase their ties. The Prophet (pbuh) used to ask about his companions and those who are missed for three days. If one of them travels, he would invoke Allah for him and if he is in his home or falls sick, he would visit him.
O Muslims!
        Social gatherings are good chances for fostering ties between families, kinship, friends, neighbors, and all members of society. They are like schools in which the young people learn from the experiences of the fathers and grandfathers. Therefore, we should maintain these social gatherings which achieve the main objective behind social communication and interaction. Visiting one another purely for the sake of Allah is among the best righteous deeds that help the servant attain the love of Allah, Exalted be He. Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (pbuh) said: "A man visited a brother of his in another village and Allah positioned an angel to wait for him on his way. When he came upon the angel, he asked him, 'Where are you going? He answered: 'I am going to visit a brother of mine in this village.' The angel asked further: 'Is there any favor that you want to get from him? The man said, 'No, it is only that I love him for Allah's sake.' The angel then said: 'I am a messenger of Allah to you (to tell you) that, Allah loves you as you love your brother for His sake."
        A man may not be able to visit whom he loved due to being busy or being overloaded with many responsibilities. Therefore, he should maintain his ties and relationship with his family, neighbors and friends and to ask about them via modern means of communication.
Islam has offered chances of increasing one's good deeds and rewards through observing good relationship with the neighbors in order to foster the bonds of love and Iman with them. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "the best friends in Allah's sight are those who are most beneficial to their friends, and the best neighbors in Allah's sight are those who are most beneficial to their neighbors." It was reported that a sheep was slaughtered for 'Abdullah ibn 'Amr. He asked his slave, 'Have you given any to our Jewish neighbor? I heard the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) saying: "Jibril kept on recommending that I treat my neighbors well until I thought that he would order me to treat them as my heirs." 
Visiting the sick manifests the real meaning behind observing good ties with the people. It may help the patients forget their pain, boost their morale and strengthen their resolve. Moreover, it is a door for entering paradise. Ali (r.a.a) narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.a.w) said: "When a Muslim visits a sick Muslim in the evening, seventy thousand angels keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for him till morning. If he visits him in the evening, seventy thousand angels keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for him till dusk; and he will have a garden in Paradise.''
O believers!
Islam has invited the believers to observe good relations with non Muslims. Asma bint Abu Bakr said: 'My mother came to me and she is a Mushrikah (Non-Muslim) at the time of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), so I asked the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) about this and I said to him: 'My mother has come to me, and she is asking for me to be good to her, should I keep good relations with my mother? The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: 'Keep good relations with her."
 
Doing goodness, giving gifts, saying good words, drawing a smile on one's face, satisfying peoples' needs are among the ways that can greatly contribute towards establishing coherent relations between members of the society as well as establishing a stable and secure society. Consequently, we should be keen to maintain good ties with one another in order to achieve the goodness for ourselves and our society as well as attaining the pleasure of Allah, the Almighty. May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
Second Sermon
 
Statistics has proven that world annually spends 300 billion dollars on drugs. If this great sum of money is saved to be spent on the poor and the needy, it will suffice them and satisfy their needs. Islam has prohibited drugs due to their dangerous effects on the individual and the society. Om Salama (may Allah be pleased with her) said: the Prophet (pbuh) has prohibited every intoxicant and Mufattir (anything which excites and irritates the mind, body and heart).
  Drugs have a dangerous impact on minds and bodies. They weaken the mind and the memory, lead to depression and stress, create social problems, negative attitudes, lead to committing the unlawful, weaken one's religion and morals and hinder maintaining good ties with the people.
In International Anti-drug Day, we should exert our utmost efforts to educate our children the dangerous effects of drugs, to protect them against becoming drug-addicts, and to treat the addicts and help them integrate into the society since we are ordered in Islam to help them and take their hands to the way of salvation.
 













