addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
Praise be to Allah who has ordered the believers to tell the truth and urged them to be among the truthful. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God Who has no partner. I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and his Messenger, the faithful and the truthful. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, who says:"O you who believe! Be ever God-fearing! And be with those who are ever truthful." (9:119)
O believers!
Telling the truth is a key for all doors of goodness that may lead to Paradise. Iman (faith) and lying can never exist together in the heart of the believer. Allah, the Almighty says: "As to the ones who forge such lies, they are the ones who do not believe in the revealed signs of God. Thus it is they who are the liars." (16:105) The Prophet (pbuh) also said: "The complete believer may have any characteristic in his nature except treachery and lying." A Muslim can be a coward or a miser but can never be a liar. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) was asked, "Can the believer be a coward?" He said, "Yes." He was asked, "Can the believer be a miser?" He said, "Yes." He was asked, "Can the believer be a liar?" He said, "No." 
Truthfulness is a mean by which can help the servant attain the pleasure and the love of Allah. Allah, Exalted be He, has made clear in the Qur'an that telling the truth is also a way for attaining success and salvation on the Day of Judgment. Allah, the Almighty says: "This is the Day when the truthful shall benefit from their truthfulness. For them are Gardens beneath which rivers flow, wherein they shall abide, forever and ever, God being well-pleased with them, and they well-pleased with Him. This is the magnificent triumph." (5:119)
The pillars of truthfulness can be completed when the believer becomes truthful towards his Lord, the Prophet (pbuh), himself and the society. Being truthful towards Allah, the Almighty demands obeying Him and drawing closer to Him.  Being truthful towards His Messenger (pbuh) demands following and emulating him. Being truthful towards himself demands self-accountability to realize the mistakes and correct them. Being truthful towards the society demands sincerity in work in order to achieve the well-being for himself and the society. The more you become truthful, the more you become beneficial to your family and the society and even help achieve their welfare and stability.
O servants of Allah,
Being truthful requires honesty and sincerity in words, deeds and all situations. Being truthful in words entails restraining the tongue from telling any lies even for jokes. The Prophet (pbuh) used to joke but he would only speak the truth. He (pbuh) said: "I guarantee a house in the middle of Paradise for he who leaves lying even when joking."
Being truthful in deeds demands adherence to the obedience of Allah, being conscious of Him privately and openly and to avoid any sign of hypocrisy that eats up the rewards and the good deeds.
Being truthful in all situations requires sincerity of hearts and limbs by the virtue of the fact that the heart can't desire and the limbs can't respond except for whatever pleases Allah, the Almighty. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Hold on to truth, for being truthful leads to righteousness, and righteousness leads to Paradise. Verily, a man will keep saying the truth and striving for truth, until he is written before Allah as very truthful (Siddiq). Beware of lying, for lying leads to sin, and sin leads to the Fire. Verily, the man will keep lying and striving for falsehood until he is written before Allah as a great liar."
The believer should be keen and adhere to tell the truth, following the example of the Prophet (pbuh). Khadijah, the Prophet's wife (may Allah be pleased with her) addressed the Prophet (pbuh) saying: "Be glad! I swear by Allah that He will never disgrace you for you are kind to your kith and kin and you speak only the truth."
May Allah, the Almighty make us among the truthful in words, deeds and all situations and help us obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
Second Sermon
Among the aspects of being truthful is the servant's truthfulness in his repentance. Therefore, if he is truthful and sincere in his repentance, Allah would certainly accept it. Allah, the Almighty says: "O you who believe! Repent to God with a most sincere repentance." (66:8) 
 













