addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
Praise be to Allah, Who has blessed us with seasons in which the rewards for good deeds are multiplied and the bad deeds are removed. We praise and thank Him in a way rightfully suitable for His Glory and Majesty. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God who has no partner. To Him alone belongs all the dominion and to Him alone belongs all praise for He has power over all things. In Ramadan, He, Exalted be He, opens for us the doors of Paradise and closes the doors of Hell. I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. He was the best of those who observed the prayers and fasting, fed food (to others) and was gentle in speech. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, who says: "O you who believe! Be ever God-fearing! Thus say always a forthright word, in proper accord with God's justice and law. He shall set your deeds aright and forgive you your sins. For whoever obeys God and His Messenger shall have truly triumphed a most magnificent triumph in this life and the Hereafter." (33:70-71)
We are on the threshold of Ramadan, the month of mercy and forgiveness, in which the believer strives to be among the successful through spending its days in fasting and its nights in prayers, giving more charities and drawing closer to Allah with righteous deeds. The Prophet (pbuh) used to prepare himself to welcome this blessed month, instruct the people about its virtues and merits, and remind them of its blessings, mercy and goodness. Therefore, their determinations and preparedness for the month are promoted and their hearts and souls yearn for the coming of this blessed month. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "When it is the first night of the month of Ramadan, the devils and the resolutely evil jinn are enchained, the gates of Hell are firmly locked such that none of them are opened, the gates of Paradise are opened such that none of them are closed, and a caller proclaims, 'O Pursuer of good, proceed and O Pursuer of evil, refrain'. [There are those] whom God salvages from Hell and that is in every [Ramadan] night." Let us perfectly observe the fast of the month of Ramadan and refrain from vain talks, obscenity, disobedience, backbiting, and slander as well as anything with which Allah gets displeased. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Whoever does not abandon false speech and acting falsely, then Allah has no need of his abandoning of food and drink."
O servants of Allah!
The main objective behind fasting is to attain piety. Allah, Glory be to Him, says: "O you who believe, fasting is prescribed for you as it was prescribed for those before you so that you may attain piety." (2:183)
 
        Piety is to obey Allah's commands and to avoid whatever He has prohibited. Muslims can attain piety and enter Paradise through being conscious of Allah in his fasting, avoidance of whatever that breaks it, drawing closer to Allah by praying at night, reciting the Qur'an, doing good deeds, giving obligatory and voluntarily charities, fulfilling duties to ones parents, observing good ties with kith and kin, sharing food (with others), spread the Salam (Muslims' greeting), providing support to the orphans, being kind to the poor and the needy, fulfilling the obligations perfectly with strong determination, and adherence to patience.
 
O Muslims!
 
        We can prepare ourselves for welcoming the month of goodness through hastening towards true repentance, resolving to observe sincerity in prayer and fast so that may Allah, the Almighty forgive our past sins. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Whoever fasts Ramadan with belief and anticipation of a reward, his past sins are forgiven."
 
In preparation for this blessed month of Ramadan, it is the duty of those who fast to learn the rulings of fasting, ask the people of knowledge if there are any questions, organize their times during the days and nights and stick to the path of righteous people by dedicating a time for reciting the Qur'an, others for remembering Allah, and a third for inviting relatives as well as establishing banquets. They should also dedicate a time for learning knowledge as well as elevating the level of their understanding and a time for entertaining themselves. At all times, Muslims should be conscious of Allah in all actions and behavior and fend off evil deeds with good ones, sins with pardon and forgiveness. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "When anyone of you is observing the fast, he should neither indulge in obscene language nor should he raise his voice, and if anyone reviles him or tries to quarrel with him, he should say: ‛I am fasting."
          May Allah, the Almighty bless for us the remaining days of Sha'ban, prolong our life to witness Ramadan, help us observe prayers, fasting, lower our gaze, protect our tongue, recite the Qur'an, and help us obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
Second Sermon
O servants of Allah!
        Ramadan is approaching with the flow of its blessings and goodness and the Paradise has been prepared to receive those who fast from Al-Rayan door (the door through which those who fast will enter Paradise). Sahl Ibn S'ad reported that the Prophet (pbuh) said: "In Paradise, there is a door called al-Rayan, through which those who fast will enter, whoever enters through it will never be thirsty." Therefore, let us prepare ourselves and seize this great chance in order to gain Allah's mercy, Paradise, pardoning, forgiveness and be saved from fire.













