addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
Praise be to Allah, Who has prolonged our lives till we witness Ramadan; the month of mercy, forgiveness, generosity and goodness. We praise and thank Him for his blessings in a way rightfully suitable for His Glory and Majesty. We bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God who has no partner. To Him alone belongs all the dominion and to Him alone belongs all praise for He has power over all things. He, Exalted be He, has helped us to observe fasting, given us power to stand up for prayer, and guided us by the guidance of the Qur'an. We also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He (pbuh) was the best one of all people to observe generosity, mercy and compassion. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, Who says: "O you who believe, fasting is prescribed for you as it was prescribed for those before you so that you may attain piety." (2:183)
Allah, Glory be to Him, has blessed us by giving us life till we witness Ramadan; the season of goodness and good deeds. In this blessed month, we are commanded to observe fasting and recommended to recite the Qur'an, give charity and stand up for prayer so that Allah, the Almighty may forgive our past sins and purify our souls. In this way, we would be accustomed to do all acts of obedience and be elevated to reach the highest status in this worldly life and the Hereafter. The best thing in status and rank to be observed in this month is fasting. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "All the deeds of the son of Adam are for him: the good deeds will be multiplied ten times to seven hundred times, except fasting, which is for Me and I will reward it accordingly."  
O servants of Allah!
        Fasting teaches Muslims how to be conscious of Allah between themselves and before the people and how to remain steadfast on obedience. It teaches also adherence to observing good behaviors and good words as well as the avoidance of whatever has been made unlawful by Allah.
        Ramadan is the month of Al-Tarawih (extra prayers performed by Muslims at night in the Islamic month of Ramadan) and Al-Qiyam (standing up for prayer at night). The Prophet (pbuh) recommended us to stand up for prayers in Ramadan's nights for the sake of asking Allah's forgiveness as well as gaining more rewards. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Whoever fasts Ramadan with belief and anticipation of a reward, his past sins are forgiven." Standing up for prayer at night is an honor of the believers, the path of the righteous worshippers, and the best of good deeds that draws the servant closer to Allah, Glory be to Him. Abi Umamah reported that the Prophet (pbuh) said: "Keep up qiyam al-layl (standing up for prayer at night). It was the way of the virtuous who came before you, it draws you nearer to your Lord, atones for your sins, forbids you from evil and protects the body from sickness." The Prophet (pbuh) kept on standing up for prayer at night and never abandon it. Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) said: "Do not give up prayers at night, for the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) would not leave it. Whenever he fell ill, he would offer it sitting."
O believers!
        Ramadan is the month of the Qur'an. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "It was in the month of Ramadan that the Qur'an was revealed as guidance for mankind, clear message giving guidance and distinguishing between right and wrong." (2:185)
        It is the duty of those who fast to make use of their time in reciting the Qur'an in order to elevate their status in paradise and attain the pleasure of the Bestower. The one who recites the Qur'an should ponder over the verses, understand their meanings, and draw benefits from their wisdom and lessons. The Qur'an is the best of things that can witness and intercede for the believer. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Fasting and the Qur'an will intercede for the slave on the Day of Resurrection. Fasting will say: 'O My Lord! I prevented him from food and desires during the day, so accept my intercession for him.' And the Qur'an will say: 'I prevented him from sleep during the night, so accept my intercession for him.' He (pbuh) said: 'And they will (be allowed to) intercede'."
O Muslims!
        Ramadan is the season of generosity. Islam has invited us to spend more on charities, especially in Ramadan since the rewards and blessings are multiplied and the mercy of Allah is descended during this month. The Prophet (pbuh) was the most generous of all the people and he used to reach the peak in generosity in the month of Ramadan when Gabriel met him. Gabriel used to meet him in every night of Ramadan to teach him the Qur'an. Allah's Messenger was the most generous person, even more generous than the strong uncontrollable wind (in readiness and haste to do charitable deeds).
        How successful is he who fasts, stands up for prayer at night, fill his time with the recitation of the Qur'an and his heart with Iman (faith), and observes generosity by spending charities in order to be a source of happiness for the poor and the needy. Moreover, this is the best of good deeds that draws the servant closer to Allah.
        May Allah, the Almighty help us to obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
Second Sermon
The most virtuous way of spending in terms of reward and status is to give out the obligatory charity; since it has been made obligatory by Allah on the rich as a due right payable to the poor and the needy. Moreover, it is an obligation on whoever owns a property reaching the Nisab (is the minimum amount of wealth in a person's possession beyond which Zakat becomes payable.) Based on fulfilling the Nisab, Zakat is of three categories, as follows:
 
First: Zakat of gold and silver as well as their subordinates, like money and commercial goods. Their Nisab values is based on 85 grams of gold which is approximately AED16000. One should pay 2.5% of the value of gold once a full lunar year is over.
 
Secondly: Zakat on animals and cattle; Zakat becomes due on whoever owns five camels, or thirty cows, or forty goats. For further details, refer to the official center for Ifta' (guidance).
 Thirdly: Zakat on edible crops, like grains and fruits; their Nisab values Five Awsuq which approximately equals six hundred kilograms. Zakat is calculated based on the way the crops and fruits are irrigated:

- One-tenth for whatever that grows through natural irrigation.
- One-twentieth for whatever that grows through artificial irrigation. 

 
Zakat becomes due on the day of harvest, as Allah, Glory be to Him, says: "And give out to the poor what is rightfully due from this on the day of its harvest." (6:141). 
 It is permissible to the Muslim to give Zakat by himself or assign one who is trusted from among the official authorities to give it on his behalf, like the Zakat Fund and the Red Cross Society.          













