addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
Praise be to Allah, Who is the Doer of Good, the Merciful, and the Generous. Glory be to Him, Who rewards  those who give charities and multiply the bounties for the good-doers. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God who has no partner. He, Exalted be He, says: "Charitable men and women who make a good loan to God will have it doubled and have a generous reward."(57:18) I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He (pbuh) was the most generous person and even more generous in Ramadan than the strong uncontrollable wind (in readiness and haste to do charitable deeds). May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, Who says: "So fear God as much as you can, O believers. Thus hear and obey his commandments. And spend charitably on what is good for your own souls. For whoever is safeguard from the avarice of his own soul, then it is these who are the truly successful." (64:16)
O Muslims!
        The blessed month of Ramadan that we live in these days is the month in which the rewards for those who fast are multiplied, the faith of those who stand up for prayers is increased, the good deeds of those who spend charities are doubled and status of the charitable men and women is elevated. Therefore, we should seize the opportunity in these blessed days of the month of mercy and goodness by the means of spending the day in fasting and the night in prayers, reciting the Qur'an, and increasing our charities. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Whenever a servant spends a charity from good and lawful earnings, Allah will accept it, take it with His Right Hand and nurture it as one of you nurtures his young colts. Moreover, a servant may give a morsel as a charity and it will be nurtured in Allah's Hands until it becomes like a mountain. Therefore, let everyone of you give charities." Charity is a mean for increasing wealth in this worldly life and a good investment in the Hereafter. Moreover, its profits are guaranteed and multiplied by Allah, the Almighty.
O servants of Allah,
        Endowment is one of the best aspects of spending. Moreover, it is more rewarding and a mean for achieving public interest.  It is a running charity of continuous benefit for whatever is donated for charitable purposes. It is also a guarantee for its preservation and the better use of it in all aspects of goodness as well as using it for promoting stability, love, unity and cooperation between all members of the society.        
It was reported that 'Omar Ibn Al-Khattab was given a share of land and he was never given anything more precious than that. He came to the Prophet (pbuh) and asked: "What do you command me to do with it?" The Prophet (pbuh) replied: "If you wish, you can preserve it and give it in charity." So 'Omar gave it in charity and stipulated that it was not to be sold, given as a gift or to be inherited, and he gave it in charity to the poor, relatives, slaves, for the sake of Allah, the wayfarers and guests.
Waqif (the person who places his property for the endowment) is one who is most entitled to benefit from the Waqf (the endowment itself) since the provision of his worldly life will be multiplied and the rewards will continue to go to him, even in the grave after death. Endowment is an ongoing charity which benefits people who are alive and works as a mercy for the dead. Endowment has penetrated all the walks of social life. It has contributed to giving special care to the scholars, seekers of knowledge, mosques, roads and bridges' construction, paving rivers, building schools and hospitals, treating patients, securing medical supplies, providing relieve to those affected by disasters, financing families of prisoners, sponsoring orphans and widows, promoting marriage among youths, paying debts, supporting the aged, financing the families of the sick and sponsoring the needs of people with various disabilities. Moreover, the benefits of the Islamic endowment go beyond the service to humans to include animals that can't find food or refuge.
        The forerunners in faith and those who followed them in their course in goodness realized the virtues of the endowment and discovered that whatever that is invested with Allah is far better for them. Therefore, they placed their wealth that was more precious to them than anything else for endowment. The Prophet (pbuh) himself was the first to innovate the Sunnah of ongoing charity through rendering seven gardens in Madinah for endowment.                
   The companions and the righteous after him followed the Prophet's example in observing the ongoing charities. 'Othman Ibn Affan (may Allah be pleased with him) purchased the well of Rumah and rendered it free for use by the rich and the poor as well as the wayfarer. Talh'a Al-Ansari (may Allah be pleased with him) came to the Prophet (pbuh) and said: "the dearest of my property is Bairuha', which was few meters to the left upon entering the mosque and from which the Prophet (pbuh) used to drink. So I have given it for endowment and I anticipate its reward with Allah. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Well-done! That is a profitable property." 
Let him be rejoiced for whoever follows their path and course of life. May Allah multiply the reward of those who dedicate their properties for endowment, accept from them, bless their provisions and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
Second Sermon
We should seize the chance in this blessed month and increase our good deeds through contribution in promoting  charitable endowment as much as we can. Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (pbuh) said: "One Dirham exceeded One hundred thousand Dirham. They asked: how O Messenger of Allah? He (pbuh) replied: "A man don't have except two Dirhams, gave one as charity, so he gave half his money as a charity (Sadaqa), and another man who is very rich gave as a charity (one hundred thousand dirham), but it was just a portion from the man's money." 
General Authority of Islamic affairs and Endowments has released a campaign to promote Al-Waqf (endowment). Therefore, it is our duty to participate in this campaign so that we may be rewarded in this worldly life and be recorded among the successful in the Hereafter. Let him be rejoiced for whoever offers a good deed in his life so that he may be pleased with its reward after death, be elevated to the highest status in Paradise and attain the pleasure of the Creator of heaven and earth.     













