addthis_pub="newawqaf";















   To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
Praise be to Allah, Who is the Generous, the Merciful, the Bestower and the Provider. He, Glory be to Him, has blessed us with the last ten days of Ramadan. We praise and thank Him for his blessings in a way rightfully suitable for His Glory and Majesty. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God who has no partner. He, Exalted be He, loves those who turn to Him in repentance, blesses those who fast, raises the status of those who stand up for prayers and enfranchises the believers and grants them paradise. I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
   I call upon myself first and all of you to be God-fearing and obey Him, Exalted be He, who says:"O you who believe! Be mindful of God, and let every soul consider carefully what it sends ahead for the tomorrow; be mindful of God, for God is well aware of Everything you do." (59:18)
O believers!
We receive tonight the first night of the last ten nights of the blessed month of Ramadan and we are thankful to Allah that He has made us successful to observe fasting and stand up for prayer in the outset and the middle of this month. We also ask Him to help us obey and worship Him in the last ten days of this blessed month. Allah, Exalted be He, has made the last ten days of Ramadan as a spiritual gift. Therefore, whoever aspires to be elevated to the status of the worshipers and the obedient, let him increase his level of humility and submissiveness before Allah and remain steadfast on the worship of Allah so that he may make up any former shortcomings and get more blessings of mercy. In the last ten nights, the Prophet (pbuh) used to exert himself greatly in devotion to the worship of Allah. 'Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (pbuh) used to exert himself in devotion during the last ten nights to a greater extent than at any other time. 'Aisha also reported that with the start of the last ten days of Ramadan, the Prophet used to tighten his waist belt (i.e. work hard) and used to pray all the night, and used to keep his family awake for the prayers. Therefore, we should seek to increase our good deeds, attain the pleasure of the Generous and the Provider, and thank Him that he has made us successful to obey and worship Him. The Prophet (pbuh) used to prolong his standing up for prayer at night. When he was asked, "Why are you doing this, when Allah has forgiven all your past and future sins?" The Prophet (PBUH) replied, "Shall I not be a grateful slave?"
Among the aspects of turning thankful to Allah is to turn thankful to whoever did favors for us. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Whoever does you a favor, reward him, and if you cannot find the means of doing so, then keep praying for him until you think that you have rewarded him."
In these blessed days, we invoke Allah to send mercy and blessings upon the founder of the United Arab Emirates, the leader and the father, the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al-Nahyan. May Allah engulf him with His Mercy. Seven years ago on this day, Sheikh Zayed passed away. However, his memories has remained alive in our hearts over days and nights. Inside and outside the country, we still witness the fruits of his wisdom and far-foresight. He planned and put the cornerstone of the civilization that we witness in our country today. Moreover, security, peace and prosperity that we live in today are the fruits of his truthfulness and sincerity. The revered rank that we are distinguished with among the people of the world is the fruits of his policy and far-foresight. Moreover, he sowed the seeds of the fruitful trees and the high palm trees that we reap today. Therefore, we ask Allah to reward him for whatever he did for us. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "If a Muslim plants a tree or cultivates land and a man, a bird or an animal eats from it, then that is a Sadaqah [charity] on his behalf."
O believers!
        We find no words to express the achievements reached in the era of the late founder and the leader of UAE. They were really like a miracle of the modern cultural achievements. He based the foundation of UAE, reconstructed the desert to become a green oasis, strived hard to achieve the prosperity of his people, built schools, universities, hospitals and healthcare centers, and constructed villages and provided them with all the facilities.                
      As a matter of fact, the fruits of the late father, leader and the founder of UAE were not restricted to the people of UAE, rather they reached different parts of the world; and they even reached the poor zones without any discrimination based on gender, color or religion to prove to the world the humanitarian side of the late founder. He sponsored many orphans, provided refuge to many of the homeless, provided a source of happiness to the widows, helped the poor and satisfied their needs. All of these deeds and achievements has placed a revered rank of his character in the hearts of the people. Therefore, he has been loved and his name still exchanged between the people of the world. May Allah, the Almighty engulf him with His Mercy and make him among the dwellers of Paradise. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Verily, a servant seeks to attain the pleasure of Allah and he remains so till Allah would say to Gabriel: My servant (nominating him with his name) seeks to please Me. Verily, I will engulf him with My mercy. Gabriel, the bearers of the Throne and those around them, and the dwellers of the seven heavens would exchange saying: may Allah send His Mercy on such person (nominating him with his name) and then the people of the earth would exchange saying the same."    
 
O Muslims!
These good deeds and great achievements remain continuous out of Allah's bounty upon us. Today, we enjoy limitless blessings while the UAE is continuing to achieve its great prosperity under the leadership of His Highness the UAE President, the Vice-President, his fellow Rulers of the United Arab Emirates and the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi; Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
May Allah protect  our leaders and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained us to obey. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "O you who believe! Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those (Muslims) charged with authority."(4:59).
Second Sermon
Due to the starvation that afflicted the people of Somalia which results in a great humanitarian disaster, His Highness the President of UAE has ordered to help in the relief of the people of Somalia. It is our duty to contribute helping and relieving them. The Prophet (pbuh) said: "Whosoever relieves from a believer some grief pertaining to this world, Allah will relieve from him some grief pertaining to the Hereafter. Whosoever alleviates the difficulties of a needy person who cannot pay his debt, Allah will alleviate his difficulties in both this world and the Hereafter. Whosoever conceals the faults of a Muslim, Allah will conceal his faults in this world and the Hereafter. Allah will aid a servant (of His) so long as the servant aids his brother." Therefore, let us participate with our charities in Somalia's people relief campaign. Allah, Exalted be He, says: "Whatever good you spend, God is indeed all-knowing of it." (2:273)  













