addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















A service offered by Awqaf to the pilgrims through many means, including:
1-  Promoting pilgrims' awareness before their departure to the holy places of the importance of registering with the UAE accredited Hajj operators only. Pilgrims are also educated about the importance of carrying out medical check-ups and taking the recommended vaccinations against communicable diseases
2-  Each Hajj campaign is accompanied with a preacher in order to offer guidance to the pilgrims and advise them about the Hajj rites.
3-  Pilgrims are also provided with booklets about Hajj rites.
4-  The Hajj rites books are available on Awqaf's website and application on smartphones and tablets.
5-  Awqaf's app offers contact details of the UAE official Hajj mission to be used in case of emergency, if any.
6-  Sending administrative, religious and medical tips the pilgrims via SMS.  
7-  Conducting awareness seminars on administrative, religious, medical and security topics at Awqaf's branches.
8-  Organizing illustration methods (video, audio and written formats) about Hajj rituals and virtues. Such methods are published via:

 Awqaf website
 Awqaf application on smartphones
 At the pilgrims departure terminals in airports
 Campaigns' offices in the holy places

In the form of CDs and USB flash drives included in the pilgrim's kit 





Department

Hajj and Umrah



Service Status

Active



Type of Service

Action needed



Target audience


The UAE pilgrims  




Service Accessibility









1-       Visit   Awqaf's website www.awqaf.gov.ae or application   on smartphones and tablets (Awqaf).
2-       Click   on "Our services" (service info)
3-       Click   on "Hajj and Umrah Services"
4-       Click   on "Promoting pilgrims' awareness"
5-       You   can read the service information and avail the service by clicking on "Go to   service"
Service can also be accessed via the links   available on the homepage of Awqaf's website as well as via Awqaf's smart   Application:




Website
 


Awqaf Application




1-       Visit   Awqaf website www.awqaf.gov.ae
2-       Click   on "e-Services" on homepage
3-       Click   on "Promoting Pilgrims' Awareness"
4-       Read   the Hajj and Umrah guides
 


1-       Go   to Awqaf smart App
2-       Click   on Hajj and Umrah icon
3-       Through this page users can benefit from the awareness   promoting services relating to Hajj and Umrah, including the Hajj and Umrah   operators in each emirate, Hajj and Umrah rituals as well as Makani (my   place) service which allows pilgrims to save the data of their location in   the holy places. They can also contact the UAE official Hajj mission while in   the UAE and during the Hajj season.
 








Processing time


Immediate




Office Hours

7:00 AM - 3:30 PM



For Inquiries



Phone
009712-6143709


Fax
009712-6213068


Email
hajj@awqaf.gov.ae


P.O.Box
-



E- participation


Facebook or Twitter or YouTube




Discussion forums


To enquire about the GAIAE's services




Required Documents



None





Terms and Conditions



None






Fees



None





Service Location

GAIAE main office in Abu Dhabi


















