addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 Praise be to Allah, to whom we are very grateful. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God who has no partner. I also bear witness that our master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger, the Imam of the pious and the master of the first and the last. He worshipped Allah until certainty came to him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you dear Muslims and myself, to be pious and obedient to Allah -the exalted - Who says, "O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and let every soul look to what (provision) He has sent forth for the morrow. Yea, fear Allah: for Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do." (Al-Hashr:18).
Dear Believers,
Muslims have built a human civilisation that still bears witness to their development and their renaissance in human history, relying on useful knowledge. In doing this, they are motivated by the interest given to knowledge by the Holy Quran, which  has energised in them full capacities and let free their potentials to better use them in response to the call  for observing and reflecting on cosmic and human environment, for Allah-the exalted- says, "Behold all that is in the heavens and on earth." (Yunus:101).
In the same context, He says, "Do they not look at the Camels, how they are made?- And at the Sky, how it is raised high?- And at the Mountains, how they are fixed firm?- And at the Earth, how it is spread out?" (Al-Ghashiya:17-20)
Allah-the exalted- also says, "Now let man but think from what he is created! He is created from a drop emitted- Proceeding from between the backbone and the ribs." (At-Tariq:5-7).
The Holy Quran has also raised the rank of those pursuing the path of knowledge and seeking its advancement. Allah-the exalted- says, "Allah will rise up, to (suitable) ranks (and degrees), those of you who believe and who have been granted (mystic) Knowledge. And Allah is well-acquainted with all ye do." (Al-Mujadilah:11).
 Credit is not only limited to Sharia studies, but also extends to encompass equally other useful sciences, which benefit  human beings, such as medicine, engineering, astronomy, mathematics, geography, physics, geology, among others. Allah-Almighty- says, "Seest thou not that Allah sends down rain from the sky? With it We then bring out produce of various colours. And in the mountains are tracts white and red, of various shades of colour, and black intense in hue. And so amongst men and crawling creatures and cattle, are they of various colours. Those truly fear Allah, among His Servants, who have knowledge." (Fatir:27-28).
Dear Believers,
Muslims have throughout the centuries interacted with the teachings of the Holy Quran, and since the dawn of Islam Muslims have stamped human civilisation by their noticeable contributions in various fields. This is clearly noticeable in  the translation of world sciences into Arabic, which was active during the early centuries of the advent of Islam. Caliph Harun al-Rashid, for instance, established Dar al-Hikma (the house of wisdom), and supplied it with lots of scientific manuscripts from all over the world. He was also generous to anyone, who translated or wrote a new book, a move that had  helped boosting innovation in so many fields of knowledge.  
Dear Muslims,
Among  the results of such an interest given to science there emerged the first hospital in the Islamic era: Dar al-Shifa (the house of cure). Muslim scientists founded also pharmacology taking advantage of the benefits of medicinal herbs. They, likewise, studied radiology, astronomy, the movement of the sun, and planet dimensions and orbits. The first observatory of its kind was in Baghdad during the reign of Caliph al-Maamun.
Additionally, Muslims excelled in optical sciences, of which al-Hassan ibn al-Haitham was the founder and the pioneer. In mechanical engineering, there emerged Ismail al-Jazri, a genius engineer, who invented a unique clock and engineered mechanical systems that are part and parcel of every machine until now.
In fields of medicine, astronomy and navigation, there were many Muslim scientists and inventors whose contributions to human civilisation are sill observable to this day. So, let us as Servants of Allah develop interest in science, and urge our children to pursue the path of knowledge to become eminent contributors to the rise of  human civilisation.
 We beseech Allah to have amongst  our children those who will rise to the rank of  distinguished scholars and innovators, ones that will delight us and benefit our Umma. We also implore Him to help us all to obey Him and those He ordained us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59).
Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no God but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the  peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 Dear parents and virtuous educators,
 Peoples climb the ladder of glory through education in various fields of knowledge. And our religion is a pioneer in urging people to educate themselves. We have no alternative today than intensifying efforts to educate  our children by making them learn useful sciences. One way to do this is  by motivating them to excel in scientific subjects in school. It is also useful to guide them to emulate the examples of previous pioneers  in science be it in present time or in the past.
 It is equally important to direct children to choose games of scientific value that stimulate in them a sense of scientific curiosity. We also need to encourage our children to take part in  and contribute to scientific events organised in the country. The Prophet (pbuh) said, "whosoever pursues a path to seek knowledge, Allah will thereby make easy for him a path to Paradise" (Sahih Muslim:2699).
 O servants of Allah,
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." (Sahih Muslim:384).
 May Allah grant our leader  Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed  and his Deputy, Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, the UAE rulers, and his faithful Crown Prince. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Makhtoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs.













