addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















 The GITEX 2011 held from October 8 to 15, 2011 was an occasion for  the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) to showcase a sample of its electronic services and applications that it had developed  to facilitate  interaction with the public and facilitate transactions. The GAIAE's exhibition stand was visited by  HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President , Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, and  attracted many visitors, who were interested to  know more about the new e-services launched by the GAIAE as well as those existing through the Authority's website: www.awqaf.gov.ae.
The participation in this year's GITEX was primarily to introduce in the public domain AWQAF services and outline the benefits to the general public, said Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, GAIAE's director General, adding that this is an opportunity to build up a positive image of the Authority's services and achievements. He also  underlined its commitment to communicating with the general public through all available means.
Dr al Kaabi also  hailed the continuous  support the Authority  receives from the  UAE wise leadership, indicating that IT technology is an essential tool with which GAIAE can achieve the objectives and the strategic vision laid down by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan (May Allah protect him), the UAE president, his deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid,  their Highness rulers of the Emirates, members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces.
The GAIAE's presence in the tech exhibition came in line with the  Cabinet's strategic plan and with a desire to enable the public to access to the Authority's services as well as to strengthen communication between GAIAE and other public and private bodies in the IT field, said Dr al Kaabi. Through its portal, the Authority provides the following services: suggestions and complaints, e-fatwa, electronic system for supervising centres of the Holy Quran memorisation, donations and endowments, Umra and Haj system,  and Friday Khutba (sermon) improvement Service.
Users, said Dr al Kaabi,  can also interact with the GAIAE using the social network sites such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube and post appropriate comments. Dr al Kaabi explained that the Authority also provides other e-services through other means, such as screens in the mosques, which have replaced posters and banners to improve  the appearance of the mosques. The screens display   important  information and provide updates relevant to religious occasions. They also educate people about the most important religious issues they need to know by presenting them in a user friendly manner. Screens have been installed in some mosques, Holy Quran memorisation centres and some of the Authority's branches.
 













