addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE)'s Official Fatwa Centre answered more than one million phone calls, text messages and electronic queries from  January to November 20, 2011. The increased demand for  this service was  due to the great interest shown by the public in the Centre, which is highly regarded as a trustworthy official and  religious reference. The Centre has a substantial stock of fatwas that can easily be referred to when needed.  Most of the public queries dealt with  themes ranging from  worships, transactions, family issues to other general subjects.
The Awqaf Authority seizes this opportunity to extend its thanks and appreciation to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan (May Allah protect him), the UAE president, his deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid,  their Highness rulers of the Emirates, members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, for their relentless support.
Being the official religious jurisprudence authority in accordance to the instructions of  the UAE wise leadership,  the GAIAE seeks to convey a true and moderate understanding of Islam. For this purpose, it provides the finest specialised scholars to answer the public's religious queries. The advisory panel at  the Authority are known for their high competence and morality. They are also keen to develop the religious awareness in the community as per  the Islamic teachings.
Muftis can through the available telecommunications technology forward the incoming calls and invite more than one Mufti to provide answers. They likewise can consult each other and learn about previous opinions given to inquirers.
For queries, the public can contact the Centre  from 8:00 am to 8:00 pm during working days by phoning the Fatwa toll free phone number 8002422 or sending  short text messages (maximum 200 characters) to 2535. The public can also post their questions on the Awqaf website (www.awqaf.gov.ae)  by filling an online form.
The Fatwa Centre will continue receiving public queries even during  the holiday period out of keenness  to serve individuals and help them understand the religious provisions relevant to their daily lives.
 













