addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  On the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the UAE Union, the General Authority of the Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) organised a vibrant  ceremony  at the great theatre of the Abu Dhabi Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday morning. 
Present were HE Dr. Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's Chairman, HE Dr. Mohammed  Matar Al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, Prof. Dr. Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince court, the GAIAE's executive directors, imams and preachers, in addition to members of staff.
The convention opened with  the national anthem sung by students from Al Ameen primary school, who enthusiastically  emerged from the audience carrying flags and ascended the stage. Later, sheikh Abdullah Al Brimi recited verses from the holy Quran. A documentary was presented to highlight the GAIAE's achievements, which also reflect those attained by other state authorities and departments.
The documentary showed in particular the extent of which the building of mosques had flourished and Waqf (endowments) had grown  under the auspices of the UAE's  judicious leadership.  These two assets have become important aspects of social, cultural and civilisational development.
The GAIAE has succeeded  in  developing  an effective operational structure in managing religious affairs. This is seen in terms of the many departments of Islamic affairs that were created and  aided by intensive use of information technology to help provide and manage services like giving Fatwas, unified Adhan, Friday Khutba, Hajj and Umra systems, Holy Quran memorisation centres, in addition to research and publishing activities.
Speaking at the ceremony, Mohammed Al Neyadi, the Executive Director for Waqf Affairs, said, "nations and people have every right to pride themselves on their historical events. We in the UAE praise Allah the Almighty for rewarding us with such great founders, who laid the foundation  for our country and raised our flag. They established for us a distinguished place amongst other peoples and nations. The 2nd of December is by all measures an unforgettable day in the memory of UAE people. It was then when the Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan along with his brothers, the Late founders of this country, hoisted the flag of the Union. Allah blessed our leaders and people with the unrelenting will to surmount all challenges.
"The founding fathers laid the foundation for the glory that we are celebrating today. As we are commemorating the 40th anniversary of the UAE Union, we also contemplate the desert that has been turned into a thriving and prosperous environment that cares and gives. The Union is for UAE a source of strength and an epitome of sacrifice. It is also a strong assurance for a brighter future. Our Union is so solid as it has as major pillars: our authentic faith, devotion to our astute leadership and people."
"It is our duty today to be utmost loyal to the unity approach endorsed by our wise leadership of HH sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE president, May Allah protect him, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, the Vice President, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, their Highness Members of the Supreme Court, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General  Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces,  May Allah protect them all."
We likewise have to foster this process in the best interest of the nation so that it will continue growing from success to success and remain secure and prosperous, concluded Mr. Al Neyadi.
For his part sheikh Talib Al Shehhi, Director of the Preaching Department, highlighted the advantages of the Union and unity as mentioned in Islamic texts and the relevant  religious national thought. He explained that Islam calls for  expressing  gratitude to those who have done good things to us. It is therefore our obligation to pray for our founding fathers, who have united us under one banner, and set the tradition for their astute successors to continue fostering  the Union  with the greatest dedication. The latter  have put as their prime pursuit the goal of further developing the country to  become amongst the advanced countries, Shehhi said, adding that the call for unity is a response to the command of Allah and his Apostle Mohammed (pbuh).
The ceremony was especially marked by the participation of many Emirati poets and chanters, who  hailed the country and the achievements of the founding fathers and the wise current leaders May Allah protect them. Saif Al Kaabi recited a poem titled: "Khalifa our Ruler", while Ahmed Al Mansouri and Ahmed Al Ghunaimi sang two chants titled "Long live my Country" and "Land of Splendour", respectively. A band from Al Ameen primary school presented a popular folk dance called Al Razfa. Then a short show was presented on how the  Mutawa (the religious mentor) used to teach boys and girls Quran, writing and reading and how people used to honour him in the past in return for his services to the community.
The audience had also a chance to know more about the development and modernisation of the Quran memorisation centres undertaken by the GAIAE as well as the general strategy of the government in the field of education.
The event included a quiz show of four questions for the audience. Each participant who answered correctly won a cash prize of AED 1000, which was handed by HE Dr. Al Kaabi. The first question was: when was first the UAE flag hoisted? The answer is December 2, 1971. The second question was: when was HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan appointed as the president of the UAE? The answer is November 3, 2004. The third question was: when was HH Mohammed bin Rashid Al Makhtoum appointed as the Vice President? The answer is January 5, 2006. The fourth question was: from which military college did HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan graduate? The answer is Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in 1979.
At the end of the ceremony, the results of the competition for the best mosque photographs, which GAIAE advertised last month in the press, were announced. The first prize, AED 50,000 together with a memorial shield  and a certificate of appreciation, went to Ali Abdul Razzaq Al Tamimi, a person with special needs. The second prize, AED 20,000, went to Sultan Mohammed Krani. The third prize, AED 15,000 together with a memorial shield and a certificate of appreciation went to Kulaitham Al Shamsi. HE Dr. Al Kaabi congratulated the winners for their participation and the winning photos will be available for viewing in a public display that will be held a week later.
On behalf of the GAIAE, the  audience extended their sincere congratulations to the wise leadership and UAE people, asking Allah for more success and excellence.
 













