addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 In a ceremony held in coordination with Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque's administration, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE)  commemorated on Thursday morning the anniversary of the Prophet (pbuh)'s glorious Migration and the new Hijri year (1433). A large number of people  turned up, recalling many lessons from  this historical landmark that still enriches humanity with social and humanitarian benefits. They also underlined its valuable message that should stay vivid in people's memory.
Present at this illustrious occasion were HE Dr.Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, GAIAE's Chairman, Dr. Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, GAIAE's Director General, in addition to all  the executive directors of the GAIAE  and a large number of people from all walks of life.
It is worth mentioning that the UAE is amongst the Islamic countries that observes religious, national and international occasions. It does so as part of efforts  to promote the heritage and civilisational values and culture as it is aware of their importance in building and sustaining  our  generations' cultural identity.
The ceremony opened with recitation of Quranic  verses by sheikh Ali Al Hosani, and was followed by a speech by the  Director of the Preaching Department, sheikh Talib al Shehhi, on behalf of the GAIAE. Mr. Al Shehhi extended the GAIAE's sincere congratulations to HH sheikh Khlaifa bin Zayed, President of the UAE, May Allah protect him, his brother Sheikh Muhammad Bin Rashed, the Vice President, Ruler of Dubai, May Allah grant success and provide strength and support to his brothers, their Highness UAE rulers, his trustworthy Crown Prince and the whole people of the UAE and the world.
Mr. Al Shehhi mentioned  that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh)'s tradition and ways of life should be highlighted in order to achieve guidance. Indeed, his life was full of great events but the greatest of all was his migration to Medina, indicated the speaker. Our guide Muhammad (pbuh) was the messenger of mercy and his journey to Medina  came to ultimately give  a light of hope for the whole world. The Hijra has a deeper meaning and amongst the fundamental principles we can acquire from this journey is our relationship with Allah-the Almighty- and people, men, women and children. Truly the Hijra has inspired everyone towards actions that serve the Islamic faith and build the nation. This is a responsibility that equally involves  all irrespective of whether they are men, women, young and or old.
Prof. Dr. Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Court of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, delivered a speech titled between "Two Epochs". Prof. Dr. Hamada highlighted the GAIAE's keenness to commemorate the Hijra anniversary due the meaningful lessons that everyone should reflect on. The Hijra was the inauguration of an era  that enlightened our paths of life, said Prof. Dr. Hamada.
The early history of Islam witnessed an intense conflict with its opponents in order to uphold the true religion and lay the foundations of Islamic faith. Prof. Dr. Hamada described the Hijra as an extension of the lights of Islam from the past to the present, and said it will remain so forever. He called on the audience to draw insight from the sense of cooperation, solidarity and the willingness to serve the faith and nation as shown by our predecessors. As well as having this positive attitude, they also set clear objectives and planned well. Had they not been patient and  strongly exercised immense determination,  they could have hardly accomplished the feat of Hijrah.
Pro. Dr. Hamada explained that it is important to draw on material means and learn about how the universe works. Allah-the Exalted-  instructed us to do so because He has blessed us with a mind to understand the link between the cause and its effects. As human beings, we should  always  try to envisage the unknown and plan ahead of time. 
Sheikh Abdullah al Junaid, a mufti at the GAIAE's advisory panel,  and Dr. Anas Qassar, a preacher, highlighted the sincerity of trust in Allah-the Almighty- and the importance of good preparation to challenges in our daily life. They described in particular how the Prophet (pbuh)'s Companions were committed to principles of brotherhood, cooperation and altruism in order to build a community where justice, knowledge, moderate thinking and tolerance shall prevail.
Yet, none of this could be achieved without the epic Hijra of Muhammad (pbuh), which had laid the ground for peaceful coexistence  within the community without prejudice to any race, doctrine, or religion. All individuals in the Medina enjoyed equal status in terms of rights and duties.
The ceremony was concluded by praying for the soul of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan and the late founders of the UAE and wishing success to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the UAE, his brother Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid the Vice President, Ruler of Dubai, their Highness the UAE Rulers, his trustworthy Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. The attendees also implored Allah-the Almighty- to protect UAE and perpetuate the  blessings of safety and security He bestowed on us. 
 













