addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
First sermon:
All praise is due to Allah, the unique in His self, the Absolute in His might, the Eternal.  He satisfied His promises, the True and Who alone deserves to be worshipped. I praise Him as is befitting to Him and as He ordained upon us to do. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah alone. He has no Associate. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in the righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah! I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct your lives in the shadow of divine obedience. Allah-the Almighty-says, "O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and let every soul look to what (provision) He has sent forth for the morrow. Yea, fear Allah: for Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do." (Al Hashr:18).
O believers,
Allah-the Most High- has created people to serve one another in meeting their needs. He endowed them with  a natural willingness to cooperate and lend a hand to each other in order to manage their livelihood. This requires of them to be decent, have good qualities  and observe manners as enjoined by Allah- the Almighty. Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "I have only been sent to perfect good manners."
Of this moral behviour is trustworthiness, which drives the individual to deliver on promises, and would make him gain people's trust and respect. It would also strengthen love and increases intimacy amongst individuals, which is very essential  to the success of  their relations.  Allah-the Almighty- has instructed us  to fulfill promises when  He says, "And fulfil the covenant of Allah: thus doth He command you, that ye may remember" (Al Ananm:152).
Fulfilling the covenant of Allah-the Exalted- should be through sincere worship, obedience, seriousness and avoidance of sins, for He says, "Did I not enjoin on you, O ye Children of Adam, that ye should not worship Satan; for that he was to you an enemy avowed? And that ye should worship Me, (for that) this was the Straight Way?" (Yaseen:60-61)
Among the aspects of obedience to Allah is satisfying contracts and observing the owners' rights. Allah-the most gracious- says, "O ye who believe! fulfil (all) obligations." (Al Maida:1). Contracts are binding obligations among people in sales and transactions. Prophet Shuaib (pbuh) said, "Give just measure, and cause no loss (to others by fraud) .  And weigh with scales true and upright. And withhold not things justly due to men, nor do evil in the land, working mischief." (Al Shuara:181-183).
O Servants of Allah,
Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "whoever is not trustworthy does not have faith." Allah the Almighty mentioned examples of the truthful and them abiding by their promises like his messenger Ibrahim (pbuh) when He said, "And of Abraham who fulfilled his engagements?" (Al Najm: 37). Scholars said that Ibrahim (pbuh) executed all divine orders, avoided all prohibitions, and conveyed the message of Allah wholly and perfectly. Thus he deserved to be a guide to people in what he said and did. Allah Almighty said, "So We have taught thee the inspired (Message), "Follow the ways of Abraham the True in Faith, and he joined not gods with Allah." (Al NAhl:123).
Prophet Ismail (pbuh) was also an example of those who were faithful to the covenant as Allah-the Exalted says, "Also mention in the Book (the story of) Isma'il: He was (strictly) true to what he promised, and he was a messenger (and) a prophet. He used to enjoin on his people Prayer and Charity, and he was most acceptable in the sight of his Lord." (Maryam:54-55). Commentators stated that he never failed to satisfy a pledge he gave to  Allah or people. He was sincere in his obedience to his Lord and father. He was also sincere in his commandment to his family to obey Allah-the Exalted.
Dear Muslims,
Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) was a perfect example of those who were true to their promises and fulfilled their covenants.  He, for example, remained grateful to his wife Khadija bin Kuwaylid (May all be pleased with her), who supported him with her money, believed in him and was the best wife to her husband in her life. She was always keen to please him and never made him angry.
In return for her caring and giving, our Prophet (pbuh) always appreciated and thanked her for her kindness. After she passed away he continued to praise her good deeds and honoured her family. Aisha bint Abi Bakr reported that an old woman came to the Prophet (pbuh), who asked her: "how are you doing? And how's your life after  us?" She replied: "good by my mother and father you are O Messenger of Allah." After she left I said: ' O Messenger of Allah why did  you kindheartedly welcome this old woman?' He replied "O Aisha,  she used to visit us when Khadija was still alive. And fulfilling the covenant is a manifestation of piety."
Dear Believers,
Gratefulness  should also be expressed to the teacher by paying tribute to him, respecting and praising him as well as praying for him. Imam Ahmad (May Allah have mercy on him) said, "for thirty years I have been praying for Al Shafei."
Please be advised that we also owe gratitude to friends. This can be done  by acknowledging their kindness, keeping their secrets, maintaining  amiable relations with them, praising them, and above all reciprocating favours.
Abdullah bin Dinar reported that when Abdullah bin Umar set out to Mecca, he kept a donkey with him which he used as a diversion from the tedium of journey on the camel's back and had a turban which he tied round his head. One day, as he was riding the donkey a desert Arab happened to pass by him. He (Abdullah bin Umar) said: Aren't you so and so? He said: Yes He gave him his donkey and said: Ride it, and tie the turban round your head. Some of his companions said: May Allah pardon you, you gave to this desert Arab the donkey on which you enjoyed ride for diversion and the turban which you tied round your head. Thereupon he said: Verily I heard Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him) as saying: "The finest act of goodness is the kind treatment of a person to the loved ones of his father after his death." And the father of this person was a friend of Umar.
We ask Allah, the most gracious, to  guide us all to fulfill our pledge  with regards  to our family, friends, community and nation, and our leaders. May Allah bless our astute leadership and help us all to obey Him and those He ordained us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59).
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims
If the fulfillment of the covenants and promises is one of the attributes of a Muslim, showing  gratitude to those who were kind and generous to us is an obligation. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "if someone is given something, he should give a return for it provided he can afford to do so; if he cannot afford it, he should praise the benefactor. He who praises the benefactor is in actual fact thanking him, and he who conceals it is ungrateful to him."
As for loyalty to the rulers, it  lies in our sincere love  for them and gratefulness to their  kindness. Thus we should pray for them as our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, " the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke God's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them." Al Hassan Al Basri said had I known my supplication would be accepted, I would have had invoked Allah's blessings upon the ruler.
 We ask Allah-the Exalted- to reward our rulers for their kindheartedness, generosity and devotion to build nations, ensure security and stability, elevate human dignity, raise the standard of living and increase salaries.
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." (Sahih Muslim:384).
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Muhammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs.
O Allaah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. We pray to Allah, the most gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security, Amen
 













