addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
All due praise to Allah, the All-Holy Ever, the Al Mighty,  the Worthy of all attributes for the limitless  bounties He has granted us. He has enjoined upon us to worship none but Him. We bear witness that there is no deity but Allah Alone, Who has no Associate. He is Sincere in His promises and sayings, Whom we laud the most. We exalt Him for what He has granted us, whether little or much.
We also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is Allah's Servant and Messenger. He is the Imam of the pious, and the Spiritual leader of the Ummah.  We pray to Allah, the most gracious,  to grant His blessings upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), the bearer of Allah's noble message, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment .
O Servants of Allah! I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct your lives in the shadow of divine obedience. Allah, the Almighty, says, "O ye who believe! Observe your duty to Allah with right observance, and die not save as those who have surrendered (unto Him)." (Al Imaran:102).
Dear Believers,  Devotion is essential for actions, without it a Muslim cannot be upright. It is the core essence of obedience and the spirit underlying any act of worship. Yet obedience cannot be reached unless the individual is sincere. Only through this noble value a Muslim can reach higher levels of piety. At its core, obedience is a genuine devotion to Allah, the Almighty, and an earnest willingness to purify the soul from such impurities: arrogance, hypocrisy, pomposity, selfishness and love of fame, that affect the good deeds. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "And they are ordered naught else than to serve Allah, keeping religion pure for Him, as men by nature upright, and to establish worship and to pay the poor-due. That is true religion." (Al Bayyina: 5)
Truly, loyalty is the cornerstone of the divine message to his messengers (pbut) for Allah, the Ever Merciful, says, "Lo! We have revealed the Scripture unto thee (Muhammad) with truth; so worship Allah, making religion pure for Him (only). Surely pure religion is for Allah only." (Al Zumar: 2-3). The apostles' hearts and tongues were self-expressive of their devotion and fidelity to their Creator. Allah, the Most Exalted, reports of his Prophet Ibrahim (pbuh) as saying, "Lo! I have turned my face toward Him Who created the heavens and the earth, as one by nature upright, and I am not of the idolaters." (Al Anaam: 79).
Allah has acknowledged the loyalty of His servants, whose intentions are true and deeds are sound. Allah, the Most Gracious, says, "And make mention of Our bondmen, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, men of parts and vision. Lo! We purified them with a pure thought, remembrance of the Home (of the Hereafter). Lo! in Our sight they are verily of the elect, the excellent." (Sad:45-47). Some interpreters said they were described as such because they were faithful worshipers of Allah, the Almighty.
Fidelity and obedience to Allah, the Most Exalted, is for Muslims a protection against  the machinations of the Satan, who has vowed to himself and by the glory of Allah to continue misguiding Mankind. Yet he excluded those who would shield themselves with the impenetrable armour of dedication and sincerity. On this Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "He said: My Lord! Reprieve me till the day when they are raised. He said: Lo! thou art of those reprieved Until the day of the time appointed. He said: Then, by Thy might, I surely will beguile them every one, Save Thy single-minded slaves among them." (Sad: 79-83).
O Servant of Allah, In all aspects of life,  Muslims have to indulge themselves in loyalty and obedience to Allah, the Most Gracious. Yet it is better they do so discretely and avoid being tempted by people's praise or libeling. Whether in secret or public, Muslims should  act for the sake of Allah. They have also to remain  humble no matter how good their actions are. This is because self-praising is the scourge of sincerity. Muslims should rather strive for Allah's reward.
The Holy Quran urges us not to publicly disclose our  good deeds for fear we might indulge in boastfulness and ostentatious behavior. Allah, the Most Compassionate, says, "If ye publish your almsgiving, it is well, but if ye hide it and give it to the poor, it will be better for you, and will atone for some of your ill-deeds. Allah is Informed of what ye do." (Al Baqara:271)
For his part, our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) explained to us that we will be rewarded if we conceal our good deeds in the way of Allah. They will stand by us on the Day of Resurrection. Muhammad (pbuh) mentioned seven kinds of people, whose actions are purely for Allah's sake  and who will be protected from the heat of  that Day, when there is no shade but that of Allah.
Abu Huraira reported that the Apostle of Allah (pbuh) had said, " Seven are (the persons) whom Allah would give protection with His Shade on the Day when there would be no shade but that of Him (i.e. on the Day of Judgment, and they are): a just ruler, a youth who grew up with the worship of Allah; a person whose heart is attached to the mosques; two persons who love and meet each other and depart from each other for the sake of Allah; a man whom a beautiful woman of high rank seduces (for illicit relation), but he (rejects this offer by saying): "I fear Allah" ; a person who gives charity and conceals it (to such an extent) that the right hand does not know what the left has given: and a person who remembered Allah in privacy and his eyes shed tears."
The companions of our Prophet (pbuh) were of the kind who  concealed their actions to avoid hypocrisy and ostentation, love of self and fame. They were frank and sincere in  their devotion to Allah, the Almighty, alone. Abi Bakr (May Allah be pleased with him) used to cater to the needs of an old woman, but nobody knew about him doing this until Omar ibn Al Khattab (May Allah be pleased with him) had once followed him out of a desire to learn from him. Only then he came to know about Abi Bakr's frequent errands when he spoke to the old lady.
May Allah help us all to obey Him and those He ordained us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59). May Allah bless you and me with the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and ask Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims, Fidelity and devotion to Allah alone is the sustainable supply of the truthful and is the key to the success of the Faithfull in this life and in the next one. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Shall he succeed whoever dedicates his heart to faith, makes his heart sound, his tongue truthful, his soul tranquil and his character upright." That is why the righteous were keen on sincerity and had guided people accordingly. And for this reason also they called on Muslims to have good intentions. The latter are rewarded for their own sake, even preceding the ensuing  actions.
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs.
O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. We pray to Allah, the most gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security, Ameen.
 
 













