addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Victory Giver. He it is that cleaveth the day-break (from the dark), the Exalted in Power, the Omniscient. We bear witness that there is no deity but Allah Alone, Who has no Associate. He makes the night for rest and tranquility and the sun and moon for the reckoning (of time). Such is the judgment and order of (His).
We also bear witness that our Master Muhammad  (pbuh) is Allah's Messenger and His dearest servant, who called upon us to take advantage of time and opportunities it avails to do  good deeds. We pray to Allah, the most gracious,  to grant His blessings upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), the bearer of Allah's noble message, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment .
 O Servants of Allah!
I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct your lives in the shadow of divine obedience for Allah, the Almighty, says, "O ye who believe! Fear Allah, and let every soul look to what (provision) He has sent forth for the morrow. Yea, fear Allah. for Allah is well-acquainted with (all) that ye do." (Al Hashr: 18)
Dear Muslims,
Time is a series of instances  and opportunities  in the individual's life. It is his way to obtain Allah's reward and appreciation. Allah, the Almighty and Glorious is He, says, "Then shall anyone who has done an atom's weight of good, see it!" (Azzilzal: 7). Indeed, The value of every human being Lies in all the good things  he offers to the world from his birth to his death.
For the great importance of time, Allah, the Most Exalted, has sworn by it in more than a place in the Holy Quran. Allah, the Almighty, says "By the break of Day; By the Nights twice five." (Al Fajr: 1-2); "By the Glorious Morning Light,  And by the Night when it is still." (Adduha: 1-2); "By the Night as it conceals (the light);  By the Day as it appears in glory." (Al Layl: 1-2).
 Allah, the Glorious is He, also says, "So I do call to witness the ruddy glow of Sunset; The Night and its Homing." (Al Inshiqaq: 16-17); "By (the Token of) Time (through the ages)." (Al Asr: 1); "And by the Night as it retreateth, And by the Dawn as it shineth forth." (Al Muddathir: 33-34)
O Servants of Allah!
Time is truly one of the gracious blessings in our lives, if not the most gracious of all. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "We have made the Night and the Day as two (of Our) Signs: the Sign of the Night have We obscured, while the Sign of the Day We have made to enlighten you; that ye may seek bounty from your Lord, and that ye may know the number and count of the years: all things have We explained in detail." (Al Israa: 12).
For the best investment of the time, a bounty from Allah,  our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Take advantage of five matters before five other matters: your youth, before you become old; and your health, before you fall sick; and your richness, before you become poor; and your free time before you become busy; and your life, before your death." Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) educated his companions (May Allah be pleased with them) according to these principles as he used to tell them: "In all that is good be eager for what benefits you, seek help in God, and be not too weak to do so."
Thus, they invested well  in time and were examples for humanity. They lit torches of light in all corners of the globe thanks to the good actions they performed and the beneficial knowledge they offered. As a result of their endeavour, Islam has spread far and wide. Our Prophet's companions (May Allah be pleased with them) wasted no  time in fruitless pursuits. Being unproductive  would be a pure ignorance which Muhammad (pbuh) warned his companions of when he said, "There are two blessings which many people lose: (They are) Health and free time for doing righteous deeds." In other words, those individuals, who fail to benefit from the good health and the available time for doing good deeds, they are absolutely losers.
Dear Muslims, 
It is a blessing from Allah, the Almighty, that people could use time to help them obey their creator. It is equally a Divine bounty that rightly invites individuals to benefit from it. Al Hassan Al Basri said, "No new day dawns upon us without saying: O people I am a new day and I bear witness to your deeds. Once the sun sets, I shall never get back to you until the Day of Resurrection."
People should therefore  be aware of the value of their  time and be recognisant of the span of time they have at their disposal. They should also  waste none of it but in good actions. That is why the pious worry less of what happened and focused more on what is coming. They are keen to seize the opportunities of the day in achieving good things. Al Hassan Al Basri said, "Life is three days: yesterday has gone with all it had brought. Tomorrow is hard  for you to know . But today is all yours and you can invest in (good) actions.
Despite Islam urging people to take advantage of time, it does not, however, discourage beneficial recreation. A Muslim is free to set for himself a schedule on how to benefit from his time whether in the night or the day. Yet he should respect timings and appointments, working hours,  appreciate the value of time for him and for others, and let no time pass without good management. By the same token, he should be reflective on what he has provided for himself, his country and the Hereafter.
All what is needed of a Muslim in this regard is to devote appropriate time  for each  activity. After all, a  successful Muslim is he who  has been granted Allah's guidance to benefit from the months, days and hours to draw closer to Allah, the Almighty and Glorious is He, through acts of sincerity in the hope for Divine blessings to ensure him the grace of paradise and protect him from the curse of hell.
We ask Allah, the Most High, to bless us in our time and lives. May Allah help us all to obey Him and those He ordained us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisa:59).
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims, 
Please be aware that it is so important to take advantage of time in all stages of life. Time will either bear witness for you if you properly use it  or against you if you abuse it. Those who waste time miss every opportunity  to raise their level and better themselves. Ibn Masood (May Allah be pleased with him) said, "I have never regretted anything as much as when a  day ends bringing my death  nearer while I  have failed to increase my good deeds."
Islam has called for profiting from time in life all along and highlighted  this in  observing Salat (prayer), being the most important religious duty. Allah, the Most Gracious, says "For such prayers are enjoined on believers at stated times." (Annisaa:103). But taking advantage of time during youth is more worthy and far more  beneficial because people at this stage of life tend to be more productive.
On this, the pious Hafsa bin Sirin said, "O fellow youth engage in work for I can see the true value of work through you." Yet to commit to work depends largely on a great respect for time. Truly, If you do not slay time with good actions and great achievements, it will slay you.
O Servants of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah guide us to appreciate the importance of time and assist us to benefit from it in the way it satisfies Allah's will.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs.
O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. We pray to Allah, the most gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security, Ameen.
 
 













