addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, The Most Able, The Most Generous. He has honoured us with the Holy Quran and guided us to His  faith. I praise Him no less than the faithful and the pious do. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah. He has no Associate, The One and Only, The Ever Lasting. "He begetteth not nor is He begotten" (Ikhlas:3) . He answers his servants who beseech Him; He gives to those who ask Him. Whoever relies on Allah - then He is sufficient for him. Allah, the Almighty, The Most Gracious is He, has ordered us to worship none but Him.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad  (pbuh) is Allah's Messenger and His dearest servant. Of all humans, he was the  greatest in creation and  the most complete in piety. He surpassed all Men in obtaining Allah's blessings. We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious,  to grant His blessings upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), the bearer of Allah's noble message, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment .
O Servants of Allah! I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct your lives in the shadow of divine obedience for Allah, the Almighty, says "if you believe and fear Allah, then for you there is a great reward." (Al Imaran:179).
Dear Muslims, Faith is the goal of all divine messages and is the path leading to Allah's satisfaction. Along this course, Allah sent His messengers (pbut), who spared no efforts for the sake of Him. In essence, the faith involves three elements:  Expression of the tongue, acceptance by the heart (inner conviction) and performance of good actions. The statements of faith required of every Muslim are the belief in Allah being the only God, the belief in Muhammad as His Prophet, the belief in Angels, the belief in Allah's Prophets and Holy Books of revelation, the  belief in the Day of Judgment and Divine destiny whether it be good or  bad.
Allah, The Most Exalted, says, "The Messenger believes in what has been sent down to him from his Lord, and (so do) the believers. Each one believes in Allah, His Angels, His Books, and His Messengers. They say, "We make no distinction between one another of His Messengers" - and they say, "We hear, and we obey. (We seek) Your Forgiveness, our Lord, and to You is the return (of all)." (Al Baqara:285).
Truly faith in Allah is the greatest blessing to His servants because it facilitates good actions and righteousness and thus placates evil and misery. It is also a means of receiving Allah's reward in this life and salvation in the Hereafter, for our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "any servant of Allah who will meet Him having no doubt in them (i.e. there is no god but Allah) but will not be denied Paradise". That is why some Muslims who will enter Hell will not remain there for eternity because of their belief in Allah, the Ever Merciful. On this matter our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) informed us: "When the people of Paradise will enter Paradise and the people of Hell will go to Hell, Allah will order those who have had faith equal to the weight of a grain of mustard seed to be taken out from Hell."
O Believers, 
Faith in Allah is the most important thing we learn. We should also educate our children in this regard so they grow on  a sound spiritual  basis.   Thus we are keen to guide them to develop great attachment with Allah and resort to Him in all situations. Indeed Allah, The Almighty, is the cause of all things. The livelihoods of every creature are in His Hands. He is the Cause of all phenomena, whether it be good or bad. The Holy Quran has reported to us how Luqman Al Hakim (Luqman the wise) educated his son through such ethics and morals that are deeply-seated in faith. Allah quoted Luqman as advising his son, "O my son!" (said Luqman), "If there be (but) the weight of a mustard-seed and it were (hidden) in a rock, or (anywhere) in the heavens or on earth, Allah will bring it forth: for Allah understands the finest mysteries, (and) is well-acquainted (with them)." (Luqman:16).
Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) used to teach people, young and old, about faith in Allah. He once addressed Ibn Abbas (May Allah be please with him): "O boy, I shall teach you some words. Be mindful of Allah and He will take care of you. Be mindful of Allah and He will protect you. If you ask then ask of Allah, and if you seek help then seek help from Allah. Know that if the nation were to gather together to benefit you in some way, they would not benefit you except in something that Allah has decreed for you, and if they were to gather together to harm you in some way, they would not harm you except in something that Allah has decreed for you. The pens have been lifted and the pages have dried." 
One of the companions said, "We were young boys when we sat with the Prophet (pbuh) and we learned Iman (faith) and then we learned the Quran and it increased our Iman."
O Servants of Allah,
Please know that the believer's faith and divine rewards increase by acts of worship and good deeds; however, it decreases by evil deeds. Allah, the Most High, says, "But to those who receive Guidance, He increases the (light of) Guidance, and bestows on them their Piety and Restraint (from evil)." (Muhammad:17); "And Allah increases in guidance those who walk aright," (Maryam:76)
O Believers, let us all perform deeds that will strengthen our faith in Allah and bring us closer to Him. And let us avoid all that will weaken our faith and alienate us from Allah, the Almighty. We ask Allah to grant us true faith in Him and full trust in Him.
May Allah help us all to obey Him and those He ordained us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisa:59). May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and ask Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon 
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers,
Of the fruits of faith in Allah is the blessed feeling  of quietude, which believers enjoy. A Muslim finds the Divine protection very gratifying, a sentiment that comforts his heart and increases his faith in his Creator. Allah, the Most Compassionate, says "Those who believe, and whose hearts find satisfaction in the remembrance of Allah: for without doubt in the remembrance of Allah do hearts find satisfaction." (Arraad:28). By the same token, strong faith in Allah leads the believer to the righteous path as Allah, the Most Exalted, says "Those who believe, and work righteousness their Lord will guide them because of their Faith: beneath them will flow rivers in Gardens of Bliss." (Yunus:9).
O Servants of Allah, 
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs.
O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. We pray to Allah, the most gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security, Ameen.
 













