addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE)  has made mosques and musallas ready for Salat Al Istisqa  (rain-seeking prayer), which will take place on Friday morning as per  the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him. The prayer sermon was distributed to all imams and preachers in prior throughout the UAE and special prayer places were made available for women.
GAIAE had called on worshippers to prepare themselves for the prayer as far as they could  by, for example,  asking  Allah's forgiveness, fasting, giving alms, seeking reconciliation with each other  and praising Allah while on their way to the mosques and musallas.
Preparations in Dubai
Dr Omar Al Khatib, Assistant Director General of Dubai  Islamic Affairs Department , said that the prayer for rain in Dubai would be held in seven different places across the emirate. The sites chosen cover the city of Dubai and its environs in addition to the Hatta area. These included the eid musallas in Bur Dubai (Jafilia), Deira, Umm Suqeim, Al Aweer, Al Mazhar, Nad Al Hammar and Hatta.
Preparation in Sharjah
The Sharjah Islamic Affairs Department selected 28 mosques and musallas for the prayer for rain. According to the Department, the list covered Al Badea, Sharjah, Al Jazzat, Al Khalidiya, and Al Mamzar in Sharjah city in addition to Al Hamriya. It also included musallas and mosques in  the cities of Khor Fakkan, Kalba and municipalities of  Al Bataeh,  Dhaid, Al Maliha, Al Mudam.
Preparations in Ajman
Mr  Obeid Al Zaabi, Director of the GAIAE's branch in Ajman, said that the prayer would be held in eid mosques and musallas across Ajman city and the areas of Masfout, Al Manama, Muzeirae, Al Sabeigha and Al Khanfarya.
Preparations in Ras Al Khaimah
Mr Ali Rashid Al Khanbuli, Director of the GAIAE's branch in Ras Al Khaimah,  said that the Awqaf branch in coordination with the departments of Public Works and  Public Services and Ras Al Khaimah Municipality had prepared 56 musallas for the prayer. Works done included cleaning and maintenance, fitting different sites with loudspeakers, and spreading red sand on the ground. Mr Al Khanbuli said that a special prayer place for women will also be made available.
Mr Khanbuli added that the Ras Al Khaimah branch had  assigned imams and preachers to different musallas and mosques.
Preparations in Fujairah
According to Mr Obeid Rashid Al Obeid, Director of  GAIAE's branch in Fujairah,  the prayer would be performed in 48 mosques, covering the whole emirate.
 













