addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Environment Friend Society (EFS) organised two workshops over two days  for the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments  (GAIAE)'s staff members at the Awqaf's headquarters in Abu Dhabi. The first seminar revolved around the rational use of  water, energy and management of waste, while the second, held under the motto: "Tell me what you eat, I will tell you who you are," highlighted eating habits and health.
The workshops,  were presented by the Environmental  advisor, Eng. Emad Saad and member of the  Society's  administrative board. Both events attracted a  large number of staff, who were responsive to the issues raised.
The first seminar stressed  the role of the individual in using resources of water and energy and managing waste in  a manner which reduces the environmental footprint in the UAE. Eng. Saad said that rational  use of resources has a direct impact on preserving the environment in general and is a national obligation as well as civic behaviour. The second workshop highlighted the importance of promoting health awareness within the community by educating  people well about the  type of food they intake.
Eng. Saad also gave a briefing on some ongoing environmental  projects related to national heritage. He qualified them as being national programmes that bring the public and private initiatives together with the aim of  maintaining the natural resources as outlined in the government's strategy. A yardstick of such a policy  is to make the UAE  a leader in environmental conservation programmes.
"The two workshops came as part of the society's plans to enhance environmental awareness and encourage interaction with organisations and the community at large. This is in order to  shed light on the most negative environmental phenomena and  identify  their  causes," said Eng. Saad, adding, "the Society will mobilise all of its available resources to support environmental causes. The far-sighted aim is to achieve awareness  amongst individuals  that will contribute to the environmental well-being of the whole community."
He added that his association is also keen to support its relations with  various community members so as to promote a sustainable development by protecting  natural resources and maintaining a healthy and pollution-free environment. In this regard, The association supports a wide range of alternatives, which are likely to boost the existing environment resources.
At the end of the workshops, the lecturer suggested a number of guidelines on how to ensure the sustainability of the environment  and answered  the queries of the audience.
 













