addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Mr Khaled Al Neyadi, the Executive Director of Awqaf Affairs at the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE), said that Awqaf was set to promote its resources and diversify the scope of its investments in compliance with the rulings of Islam. Mr Al Neyadi described the ongoing projects as profitable and secure, saying they would also contribute to the growth of endowment assets.
 The plan outlined by the GAIAE included the construction of a building on Hamdan Street in Abu Dhabi at a cost of AED 8,34 mn, Suhail bin Manea building in Al Ain and Al Neyadat area at AED 5,7 mn in addition to a Waqf by Hamad bin Barak Al Dhaheri (a two-storey building in Al Ain) at two million dirhams.
As for future projects, Mr Al Neyadi said that 70 per cent of demolition work had been completed on the Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan's (May Allah rest his soul) Waqf in the Khalidiya area in Abu Dhabi. The new building is expected to be finished and made ready for occupancy by 2016. The GAIAE has awarded the construction tender to the KEO company and  the engineering consultancy service to Herberger Engineering out of 42 companies that bid for the execution of the project.
Mr Al Neyadi said that HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him, donated AED 360 mn for this endowment, which prompted the GAIAE to speed up the implementation of the project. The Awqaf has already completed the necessary designs that will render the Sheikh Zayed waqf  a building of new structure and look.
The building will occupy an area of about 2624 sqm, and consist of five basement levels for car parking, a ground floor for commercial showrooms, a mezzanine for office spaces in addition to 29 stories. Overall, the building will comprise 523 apartments, of which 348 are one bedroom and a hall, 59 are two bedroom and a hall and the remaining 116 apartments consist of three bedroom and a hall. Office spaces will occupy 1766 sqm; whereas, showrooms will take up 899 sqm. The Parking area will consist of an area of 440 sqm.
Mr Al Neyadi mentioned that the GAIAE's Board of Directors had recently approved  the allocation of AED 10 mn from asset revenues for the construction of a Waqf building in Fujairah and AED 5mn for a building in the industrial area in Sharjah. The preparations to implement one of the projects in Abu Dhabi have begun by assigning a company to transport a power transformer to the construction site of the Khalidiya Waqf  building.
The Board also agreed to disburse the proceeds from Mafhas Al Qatah (Dove Nest) Programme to finance various projects. Respectively, the Programme paid out AED 7 mn, 8,642 mn, 550,000, and 125,000 for the following constructions: a mosque in Ajman, a mosque in Nahdha Military area in Abu Dhabi, a warehouse extension to Waqf no. 692 in Shamkha and for additional works in Al Ab Waqf building in Ajman. The board will likewise release AED 15,88,00 mn as an allocation to cover cleaning  work expenses of mosques in Sharjah, Ajman, Ras Al Khaimah, Umm Al Quwain and Fujairah.
Other projects by the GAIAE include the construction of the Al Khayr Shopping Centre, a commercial building, in Madinat Zayed in the Western Region at a cost of AED 55 mn, Majed bin Sultan building in Dubai at AED 14 mn, a building in the industrial area in Sharjah at AED 13 mn, the Rabea and Batti Al Qubeissi building in the Abu Dhabi emirate at AED 5 mn in addition to Hamel Khadem Al Gheith building in Abu Dhabi at AED 15 mn.
Regarding the expenditure rules, Mr Al Neyadi said the donors determine the related terms yet the latter should also be in line with the Cabinet resolution no 6 of 2010 concerning regulations of Waqf proceeds and especially article 5 on the Waqf Funds. He explained that the GAIAE takes into consideration spending priorities among different Funds as per the regulations adopted by the Cabinet and in coordination with the legal committee composed of specialised scholars. The GAIAE also manages closely the Waqf funds and disbursement processes, Mr Al Neyadi concluded. 
 













