addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE)' branch in Fujairah has started implementing a comprehensive plan aimed at building 30 new mosques across the emirate this year. The project will cost AED 50 mn which will sponsored by  Emirati philanthropists and from the Mafhas Al Qatah (Dove Nest) programme.
The Fujairah branch has completed its preparations to inaugurate a number of new mosques that were built  during the second half of last year, including that of  Dawar Al Fanar in Dibba Fujairah. The construction of this mosque was financed by the city's inhabitants at a cost of more than AED 1,200,00. Mr Rashid Obeid Al Obeid, the Fujairah GAIAE's branch Director said, "many new mosques are under construction whilst another 30 located in various areas in the Fujairah emirate are still in the design planning phase. The overall cost of building the new mosques will amount to  more than AED 50 mn."
Mr Al Obeid stated that three new mosques would be built in Fujairah city whose design had been made ready. In Al Badiya, three mosques will be established, one is under construction while the other two are still at the design stage. In Mirbah, one mosque is being built and two others are in the design phase. In Dibba three mosques of varying sizes are under construction in the  area of Rifaa and its urban environs. There are four other mosques in the design phase, which are expected to be completed in the current year.
In  Masafi,  two new mosques are being built while a third one is in the finishing  phase. In the areas of  Al Siji and Seeh Al Saram, there  are two mosques in the finishing phase as well. Mr Al Obeidi mentioned that the GAIAE's branch in Fujairah  was in contact with an engineering consultancy company to prepare the design for six new mosques in the following areas: Al Halah industrial area, the new Shaabiyat Wadi Al Sidr, Ahfara and Al Khalibiya and for another two in the new Shaabiyat Al Ghuzaimri. Construction work will start once the engineering designs are ready by early next February.
Mr Al Obeid said that the number of mosques in Fujairah are 300 and he expected this number to increase to up to 330 by the year's end. Meanwhile, the GAIAE's branch in Fujairah will inaugurate in the first half of this year nine mosques, three in February and six by the end of next June.
Last year six new  mosques were inaugurated, one  in Al Fujairah, in Sakamkam, Al Bidya and Dibba, and two more in Al Taiba  with a respective capacity of 700, 600, 200, 300 and 1000 worshippers. The construction of all these mosques is sponsored by local benefactors committed to charity. 
 













