addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Mr Khaled Al Neyadi, the Executive Director of Awqaf Affairs at the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, revealed that the GAIAE intended to establish two comprehensive  commercial centres: Acharj and Down Town malls in Al Ain city as Waqf.  Both facilities are intended to satisfy the needs of the local population and offer a good shopping experience. The estimated cost of the two projects is AED 103,754,00 mn.          
Acharj Mall will be established on a total area of up to 12220 sqm and will consist of residential apartments, parking lots, recreational areas, coffeshops, prompt service facilities in addition to shopping areas of two floors. The basement hosts a shopping centre occupying an area of 4128 sqm, whilst the ground floor comprises a supermarket and a number of shops. The first floor consists of 28  residential apartments, four of which are of one bedroom and a reception, 20 are of  two bedrooms and a reception, while the remaining units are of three bedrooms and a reception.
Mr Al Neyadi put  the estimated cost of the first project at AED 42,770,00 mn, saying that the construction work will kick off next May and be completed after 18 months, according to consulting studies.
The project is particularly important because it aims to highlight the historical aspect of Al Ain, a city endowed with a number of archeological sites, museums, and other points of attraction. It will also contribute to the development  of  basic infrastructure and services and the promotion of tourism.
On this occasion, Mr Al Neyadi said that the GAIAE continuously receives great support from HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President May Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE , and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates.
The Down Town Mall project will cost about AED 60,984,00 mn. The construction will start next May and last 18 months. The mall will occupy a total area of about 17424 sqm and will consist of shops, residential apartments, gardens, parking lots, recreational areas and coffeshops. The ground floor, 3582 sqm,  will host 16 shops and the mezzanine of an equal area, 15 shops. The Mall's three floors will accommodate 72 apartments that will occupy a total area of approximately 10260 sqm.
 













