addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  UAE citizens from the Al Riqqa area in Umm Al Quwain  requested prompt maintenance of all closed mosques or those which have been demolished. They demanded to have these replaced with new ones as soon as possible. They also demanded to connect the late Abdullah bin Salem Mosque, near the Civil Defence Department, with water, saying  many worshippers flocked to the mosque and there was a lack of adequate sanitary facilities due to the small size of the mosque.
They explained that the mosque is the only one in the area where they can perform the five prayers, adding that water  had been cut  for a long time. They highlighted that houses of worship should receive due care and maintenance  and be always in good shape. More joint-efforts should be done, they suggested, by the imam and the community to address any shortcomings related to maintenance.
At the same time, they requested the department in charge within the GAIAE not to undertake maintenance work simultaneously in all of the  mosques in the area as this will cause them delay in performing prayers on time. They hailed  the great efforts by the GAIAE's branch in Umm Al Quwain, which completed the furnishing of mosques across the Emirate in addition to the renovation of all mosques' sanitary facilities.
Redirecting waterpipes
Answering these concerns, Mr Mohammed Ibrahim Hameed, Director of the GAIAE's branch in Umm Al Quwain, said that the water cut in the Abdullah bin Salem mosque was due to a replacement of the main water  supply pipe in the Emirate. Mr Hameed explained that the Federal Electricity and Water  Authority had been contacted to connect the said mosque with water via the main line and within one week this problem would be solved.
Mr Hameed stated that the nearest mosque, Al Tawheed, is 500 metres   away. Two mosques in  the Al Riqqa area had been demolished and are being replaced by new ones, he said. These are Al Hassan bin Ali and Uqba bin Nafea mosques, both of them  were in a delicate condition. The first one is 80 percent completed whilst the second is 35 percent.  The construction of the  two mosques will be finished before the end of this year.
Mr Hameed emphasised  that the GAIAE's branch in Umm Al Quwain devotes special interest to mosques in terms of their maintenance, cleanliness,  furnishing and air-conditioning. Yet, the GAIAE branch cannot delay the execution of maintenance work because these are based on contracts with outside contractors as per specified deadlines, concluded Mr Hameed.
 













