addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 As part of its policy to promote Waqf being an economic, social and civilisational lever for development, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments signed a construction contract with the  East Coast Contracting Company (ECCC) in the GAIAE's headquarters in Abu Dhabi. As per the contract, the ECCC will construct the building in the area of Al Sharia in Fujairah at a cost of AED 10 mn.
HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, said that the Awqaf Authority is keen to implement the directives of the prudent UAE leadership to promote Waqf  by expanding its field of application and developing its mechanisms. The GAIAE also strives  to bring into being new Waqf investment forms that fit into the modern economy and reflect  the great renaissance UAE is witnessing at all levels, he said.
On this occasion, Dr Al Kaabi praised the relentless support of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him, his deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE, and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. Dr Al Kaabi also hailed the special interest of HH Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Member of the supreme Council  and Ruler of Fujairah in GAIAE's activities and achievements.
"The signature of this contract is one among many others to establish several endowment projects across the UAE. It is also in line with the GAIAE's strategic  plan approved by the Cabinet," said Dr Al Kaabi, adding, "the GAIAE will move forward in the execution of its programmes  to educate the public through many of its communication  platforms. The Awqaf will particularly stress the importance of contributing to Waqf endeavours  given its advantages for both donors and the community at large."
The Waqf Al Khayr building consists of one ground floor, seven stories and a roof. Other technical specifications and conditions, which the contractor (ECCC) must comply with, are mentioned in detail in the contract  agreed upon by the two parties.
 













