addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 In a statement, HE Dr Mohammed  Matar Al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, mentioned that an opinion poll by the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research (ECSSR) to assess the customers' satisfaction about the GAIAE's public services revealed that more than 81 percent of participants were pleased with the service. The survey included six categories of the GAIAE's customers: mosque attendees, Haj and Umra operators, pilgrims, Waqf donors and benefactors, Waqf real estate  tenants and fatwa seekers.
"The survey came as part of the GAIAE's strategic plan for 2011-2013 as approved by the Cabinet to ascertain the views of the public in order to  improve the level of performance and quality of services as well as to raise the bar of excellence," said Dr Al Kaabi.
The findings are based on a sample of 1200 persons responding to  questions related to the GAIAE's services during 2011. Of all the target audience,  95.4 percent replied back. Respectively, operators, Waqf donors and benefactors, pilgrims and  mosque goers, expressed their views as satisfied and as follows: 81.7 percent, 81.1 percent, 81 percent and 80.7 percent.
Overall, 83.5 percent were happy about the GAIAE providing fatwa services through the Official Fatwa Centre. Concerning the medium of delivery, 89.02 percent trusted the religious opinions they receive via text messages and 80.8 percent through the phone. Respondents were more satisfied  (91.7 percent) with fatwas they had received online on the GAIAE's website because it is  easy to access via the Internet.
Out of every 10 respondents, eight said they received a clear and explicit fatwa and  90.8 percent stated that they were satisfied about the time that it took them to request and  receive a fatwa via text messages.
The public satisfaction with the role of the GAIAE in taking care of mosques was 84.8 percent, whilst the general satisfaction with the GAIAE by the various categories of customers stood at 81 percent .
Dr Al Kaabi attributed this excellent appreciation from customers to the great support from the judicious UAE leadership and the concerted efforts of the GAIAE's staff in all of its branches.
Dr Al Kaabi extended his thanks to the ECSSR for the efforts it had invested to conduct this survey. He also highlighted the fact that the Centre is the specialised and independent authority in the UAE in such studies, praising, on this occasion, its high academic and research status worldwide.
 













