addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He sent His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh) to Mankind as a witness, a bearer of glad tidings and a warner. All grace is due to Allah as is befitting to His glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues. I bear witness there is no deity except Allah.
 I also bear witness that Muhammad (pbuh) is the Messenger of Allah and His dearest servant.  He endowed His apostle with the clear evidence and resolve and supported him with tangible miracles. I pray to Allah, The Most Gracious, to grant His blessings upon our Guide Muhammad (pbuh), his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah! I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct your lives in the shadow of divine obedience. Allah, the Almighty, says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
 Dear Muslims,
The Prophet (pbuh)'s tradition is full of lessons, which should encourage us to ponder and set for us the role model in life. Muhammad (pbuh) grew up as an orphan after his father, Abdullah Abd Al Muttalib, died before his birth, while his mother Amina bint Wahb, died when he was only six years old. When his grandfather Abd Al Muttalib passed away, Muhammad (pbuh) was raised by his uncle Abi Talib. Growing up as an orphan however did not prevent him from having a good education by the grace of Allah, The Almighty. He received good care from his family and clan, and he enjoyed a prominent status amongst his people, who used to call him the Sadiq Al Amin (the trustworthy).
As a young man, he was industrious  and never disdained work as long as it was an honest livelihood. He worked as a shepherd for families in Mecca in return for a commission. In addition to being supportive to his family by sponsoring his uncle and children, he was also an assertive player within his community.
  He for example took part in Hilf Al Fudul (Alliance of the Virtuous), an agreement established by some clans of the Quraysh tribe to defend the oppressed and protect rights, of which Muhammad (pbuh) said, "I witnessed a pact in Ibn Jadaan's House, and if I were invited today to it I would agree to it." The pact can be seen as a paradigm for how Muslims should interact with any initiative that serves both their nation and community.
Our Prophet (pbuh) also worked as a merchant trading with the money of  Khadija (may Allah be pleased with her). So because of the number of productive roles he played within the community and due to his sincerity and honesty, Khadija wanted to marry him and preferred him over the other noble men amongst her people.
O Servants of Allah,
In his forties, Muhammad (pbuh) first received Allah's revelation. Yet the path to convey the divine message was not any smooth before him. He had to face many an obstacle. When he called on his own people to accept the message of Allah to believe in Him Alone, they denied him and harmed him. They made him choose between either prestige or the consequent reaction of him pursuing prophethood, a mission for which he was sent.         
Muhammad (pbuh) chose the second option. Accordingly, the unbelievers had besieged him along with his companions (may Allah be pleased with them) in the Valley of Abi Talib in Mecca for about three years. Meanwhile the Quraish tribe had boycotted them until they resorted to eating tree leaves for survival and  because of the severity of hunger, Muhammad (pbuh) used to put a stone on  his stomach. To make matters worse his own people tried to kill him which forced him to leave his homeland.
He migrated for the sake of Allah, the All Victorious. On this matter, our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "I have been made afraid regarding Allah's cause when no one was afraid, I have been made to endure harm in Allah's cause when no one was suffering harm, and thirty nights and days have come to me when Bilal and I had no food which creatures possessed of a liver eat, except something which was kept under Bilal's armpit."
Dear Muslims, 
However much hardship he endured and resistance to the Divine message he received, he remained steadfast. Moreover, he set out to invite people to Islam with wisdom and beautiful preaching until they had entered into the religion of Allah in multitudes. Allah, The Most Exalted, empowered him over his enemies, Mohammed (pbuh) did not kill them. Nor did he avenge himself in any manner. He rather showed leniency towards them and forgave them saying, "O Quraish, what do you think of the treatment that I should accord you?" And they said, "Mercy, O Prophet of Allah. We expect nothing but good from you." Thereupon Muhammad declared: "Go your way, for you are free."
 He thus inaugurated a new era characterised by a great hope for mutual cooperation in righteousness and piety. Verily his mission has been a beacon of light, guidance and mercy to mankind, for Allah, The Most High, says, "And We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds." (Al Anbiyaa:107). His advice to his companions when sending them out for a mission had been: "facilitate things for people (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them and give them good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam)."
Besides being delicate and tactful in dealing with the people, he was profoundly interested in knowledge. He used to urge his companions to learn and educate themselves. Abu Rifaa reported: I came to the Holy Prophet (pbuh) when he was delivering the sermon, and I said: Messenger of Allah, here is a stranger and he wants to learn about this religion and he does not know what this religion is. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) looked at me and left his sermon till he came to him, and he was given a chair and I thought that Its legs were made of iron. The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) sat on it and he began to teach him what Allah had taught him. He then came (to the pulpit) for his sermon and completed it to the end.
Dear Believers,
Our Master Muhammad (pbuh)'s heart had been throbbing with love, compassion, kindness and goodness. He lived and died as a Guide, and among the last words he uttered on his deathbed were: "prayer and that what your right hands possess." He also used to exhort his own people to treat women well. Our Prophet said, "So treat women kindly."
May Allah help us to follow the path of His Prophet (pbuh).
We also supplicate to Allah, the Almighty, to help us obey Him and  those He ordained us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisa:59). May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh).
 I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon 
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers,
Our Prophet (pbuh) was made to choose between the splendour of this world and the satisfaction of Allah's will. His wife Aisha (May Allah be pleased with her) said, " I often heard him saying: 'Allah never puts the soul of a prophet  at rest without making him choose between life and death'. So when Muhammad (pbuh) was dying, the last word I heard him saying was: 'rather the higher ranks in the Paradise'."
Thus, Our Master (pbuh) returned back unto his Creator after conveying the message of Allah, the Most Gracious is He, and fulfilling the promise. Sincere to our Prophet (pbuh)'s covenant, as we are, our hearts are always vibrant with his love, our tongue reverberating with his remembrance, and our thoughts nurtured  by his wisdom and teachings.
O Allah, as we have believed in Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) although we have not seen him, we supplicate to you not to separate between us and him until you grant us his abode in the Paradise and give us to drink from his (the Prophet's) noble hand, a drink after which we will never thirst again. May Allah gather us under his banner and grant us his intercession in the Hereafter and his company in the Paradise, Ameen.
O Servants of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad (pbuh), his family, and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah help us all to follow the path of your Prophet in this world and grant us his company in the Paradise. We supplicate to you, the Almighty, to accept our Duaa, grant us repentance unto You and guide us to fulfill actions to earn Your mercy, forgiveness and spells. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. O Allah, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Hellfire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
 We pray to Allah, the most gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45). 













