addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar Salem bin Abid Al Kaabi



 
Born at Al Waha Hospital in Al Ain on July 16, 1966,  H.E. Dr. Mohammed Matar Salem bin Abid Al Kaabi studied in the Military School and excelled throughout his academic career.  He obtained his bachelor's degree in Islamic and Arabic Studies from the College of Islamic and Arabic Studies in Dubai in 1994 and a master's degree in Islamic Jurisprudence and its principles from Mohammed V University, Morocco in 1998. In 2002 he completed his PhD (with distinction) in Islamic Studies, Unit of Research in Islamic Studies Curriculums from the same University. His PhD dissertation was recommended for publication.

Dr. Al Kaabi assumed various leadership positions in the UAE Armed Forces where he progressed from Candidate to Lieutenant Colonel. During his military career, he attended many training sessions where he got first class distinction like in skydiving. He also took part in strategic-focused workshops. Some of his other roles included a physical education trainer, signaling devices' instructor and shooting referee. He worked in Britain for a period of five years.

In recognition of his academic achievements, he was presented two times with the Sheikh Rashid Award for Scientific Excellence for his master's degree and for his PhD. He was also awarded the Pan Arab Wise Leadership Certificate of Excellence in 2012. Other awards he received were Kuwait Liberation Medal and Good Service Medal and Good Service Medal.

Dr al Kaabi presented lectures at the Emirates Center for Strategic Studies and Research and chaired many master and PhD theses' examining committes. Previously, he supervised educational activities for summer schools.

Dr Al Kaabi has been studying Arabic calligraphy. He excelled in Naskh (cursive) and Ruqaah (patch) writings, Persian calligraphy in addition to Diwani (a decorative writing distinguished by the complexity of the line within the letter and the close juxtaposition of the letters within the word) and Tulut (a writing style marked by elongated verticals). He is also interested in Arabic grammar and syntax, Arabic poetry, especially the pre-Islamic one. His favourite recreations are volleyball, swimming, shooting, horse riding and scubadiving.

Dr. al Kaabi is a seasoned public administrator with more than 25 years of administration experience. Previously, he held the following posts:  

Former Chairman of the Zayed House for Islamic Culture.

Former member of the UAE Moon Sighting Committee.

Former Chairman of Preachers' and Imams' Testing and Selection Committee at the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments.

Former Chairman of the Supreme Hajj Committee.

Former Chairman of the National Conference Committee Board. 

Currently he is undertaking the following roles:

Chairman of the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (in the rank of Undersecretary).

Chairman of Mohammed V University -Abu Dhabi's Board of Trustees.

Chairman of Friday Sermon Committee at the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments.

Chairman of various subcommittees.

Member of the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque's Board of Trustees.

Dr al Kaabi delivers Friday sermon live and has been publishing a daily column for Al Ittihad Newspaper during Ramadan from 2009 to 2012.

His publications include:


He contributed to examining, supervising and editing more than 120 publications issued by the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments



"Minhaj al Istidlal al Fiqhi inda Ibn Hazm wa Ibn Abdulber" (The Jurisprudential Approach to the Inference of Ibn Hazm and Ibn Abdulber).

"Al Unf fi al Turath al Islami: Ibra wa Dhikra" (Violence in Islamic  Heritage: Lessons and Reflections).

"Dawr al Maraa fi Binaa al Mujtamaa" (The Role of Women in Building Society). 

"Natharat fi al Din wa al Fikr wa al Mujtamaa" (Insights into Religion, Thought and Society). 

"Mudawat al-Nufoos wa Tahdhib al-Akhlaq: Tahqiq" (Curing the Self and Rectifying Manners: A Critical Account). 

"Maathiru al Aalam" (The Legacy of the Masters).

"Li Qawmin Yatafakkaroon" (For Those Who Reflect).
"Sirat Imam Malik" (Annotated Biography of Imam Malik).


 
 
 
 
 
 













