addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
All praise is due to Allah, The Giver of Blessings. We praise him for the bliss of faith, health and money He has bestowed upon us. We also exalt Him for empowering us to engage in the good work and earn Halal (permissible) livelihood.
 I bear witness that there is no deity except Allah. He, The Self Exalted, has no Associate. I also bear witness that Muhammad (pbuh) is the Messenger of Allah and His Servant. I pray to Allah, The Most Gracious, to grant His blessings upon our Guide Muhammad (pbuh), his kin and kith, all those who will follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment.
 O Servants of Allah! I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct our lives in the shadow of divine obedience, for Allah, The Almighty says,  "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
 Dear Believers,
 Wealth is one of the blessings from Allah that we cannot do without. Verily it is the backbone of life and has had a major role in building civilisations. It is also a centre of interest for people and is much liked by them.
 Allah, the Most Gracious is He, says, "And you love wealth with immense love." (Al Fajr:20).  It is not surprising then that the love for money is innate and comes naturally. Allah the Almighty says, "And indeed he is, in love of wealth, intense." (Al Adiyat:8). It is a grace from Allah to us that we have to better use it and reflect on its immense value. We should remember as well that the money we have is the wealth of Allah, The All Rich, The Independent, and that we are  but a successor entrusted by Him to look after it as a deposit. Allah the Almighty says " For those who have believed among you and spent, there will be a great reward." (Al Hadid:7); "and give them from the wealth of Allah which He has given you." (Al Nur:30).
 Thus people have to seek means to make money legally and spend it wisely, for our Master (pbuh) said, "Truly the beneficial wealth is for the good people." For this to happen, Allah, The Most Exalted, asks us to acquire money and enjoy the good permissible things. He The Almighty says, "Wealth and children are [but] adornment of the worldly life." (Al Kahf:46); "Say, "Who has forbidden the adornment of Allah which He has produced for His servants." (Al Aaraf:32). On the same matter, Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Those whom Allah has favored with a bounty, then Allah likes to see the effect of His bounty on His creation."
 Truly wealth is a blessing to its owner. But those who lack it or have only a little of it should not delve into thinking that Allah has preferred the wealthier over them. Allah, The Most Exalted, has a great wisdom in this regard, for He says,  "And if Allah had extended [excessively] provision for His servants, they would have committed tyranny throughout the earth. But He sends [it] down in an amount which He wills. Indeed He is, of His servants, Acquainted and Seeing." (Al Shura:27).
 As a matter of fact, one of the Divine laws in this world is that Allah has made his servants unequal in terms of their livelihoods, only for the benefit of His creation. Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, " Indeed, Allah will protect  his faithful servant from the world when He loves him as you protect your patients from food and drink for their health."
 Less wealth is not a sign that Allah is displeased with His servant, nor is it a deprivation per se. Allah The Almighty may narrow the scope of livelihood for His servant, only to offer  him even wider  opportunities  to come closer to his Creator. One way to do this is by keeping oneself busy with Allah's remembrance and being  sincerely obedient to his will. That will make the individual wealthier, looking upon what has been withheld from him truly a good lot. Allah, The Most Gracious, may provide an individual with both: wealth and strong faith and this is a generous giving from Allah the Almighty. That is the bounty of Allah, which He gives to whom He wills.
 Allah, The Most High, says, "And as for man, when his Lord tries him and [thus] is generous to him and favors him, he says, "My Lord has honored me." But when He tries him and restricts his provision, he says, "My Lord has humiliated me. No!" (Al Fajr:15-16). This suggests that not everybody for whom Allah has preordained abundant wealth is in fact honoured by Him. Nor is he disgraced  he who sees Allah's sustenance restricted for him.
 The true honour is when Allah grants him sincere obedience, Divine love and knowledge. The humiliation is in fact when Allah deprives  him of these blessings. After all, the poor and the rich can be gauged in status only against one and unique standard: piety, for Allah, the Bestower, says "Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you." (Al Hujurat:13).
 Dear Muslims,
 The bounties last by showing gratitude to Allah, Who bestows his blessings upon them, for He says, "If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor]." (Ibrahim:7). To be thankful to Allah, The Bountiful, for the bliss of wealth, we should be sincerely indebted to Him for the blessings He has provided us with and increase our  praise to Him. Our Master (pbuh) said, "If anyone says in the morning, 'O Allah, whatever blessing comes to me or any of Your creation in the morning is from You alone with no partner; praise is Yours and thanks is to You' has fulfilled the thankfulness due for the day. If he says the like of that in the evening, he has fulfilled the thankfulness due for the night. "
 Another way to thank Allah, The Most Generous, for blessings in wealth is to spend money in the way it pleases Him and brings about prosperity and happiness. Beneficial areas of spending vary from sponsoring one's family, educating children, helping them marry, assisting the community in building mosques and hospitals, caring of widows and orphans, paying for students, among others.
 May Allah help us earn a Halal livelihood and spend it the way it pleases Him, and  help us all to obey Him and those He ordained upon us to obey, as the Almighty says: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 Dear Believers,
                                                                                                               
Please know that reckless spending causes loss of wealth, unnecessarily throwing a person and his family under the yoke of borrowing and debt. The sound alternative should be a rational use of money and a good management of one's livelihood. These two qualities indeed reflect some of our Prophet's praised merits and echo his hadith: "moderation is the twenty-fifth part of prophethood."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our master Muhammad (pbuh), his family, and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, we seek Your guidance to elevate our piety, and make us self-sufficient. We beseech Your help to empower us with wisdom and adorn our demeanour with tolerance and full devotion to You, The All Beneficent. O Allah, we also seek refuge in You to perpetuate Your blessings upon us, and  make us independent through Your bounty of everyone except Yourself. O Allah, enrich us with the need of You and do not impoverish us with the lack of perception of the need of You.
 We supplicate to You, the Almighty, to accept our Duaa, grant us repentance unto You and guide us to fulfill actions to earn Your mercy, forgiveness and spells. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
  We pray to Allah, the most gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).
 













