addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 In an interview with Al Ittihad newspaper, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi said that the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments  uses the state-of-the-art technology to serve the religious discourse following the collective Ijtihad (the process of juristic reasoning) approach. He stressed that  the Islamic discourse and practice in the UAE is based on moderation and in full harmony with heritage and modernity.
He also revealed that the GAIAE would increase the number of  religious lectures in mosques as part of its preaching plan for this year and in line with the Awqaf's efforts to promote a  moderate Islamic culture within the community.
Dr Matar explained that the approach to fatwa by the UAE Official Fatwa Centre is close to what has become known as the collective Ijtihad, adding that religious queries from the public are presented to a panel of Muftis, who  are grouped according to their areas of expertise. This includes worship, worldly matters like business transactions and others. A Fatwa is first written then forwarded for editing, both linguistically and in terms of  jurisprudence, and  documentation.
This year's preaching plan will reflect the diversity of knowledge in Islam, including a variety of areas spanning the Holy Quran and its sciences, the traditions of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), worship, human values, religious, national and social occasions. Every week one theme will be highlighted with many lectures  being delivered in mosques and by the medium of the media. For example the subject of "The family, the nucleus of society and the role of the mother" was chosen for the week starting March 18 and ending 24, "The grace of health" for the first week in April.
Religious discourse theme
Dr Al Kaabi further explained the features of the religious discourse in the UAE, saying it is highly regarded by many countries and specialised organisations. He added that it rests on four main foundations: moderation in thought and practice, harmony between heritage and contemporary reality, diversity in addressing the legacy of jurisprudential, intellectual or cultural content, and the use of modern technology in the service of the religious discourse on many levels.
In this regard, the GAIAE has boosted the technical infrastructure of mosques by  providing advanced equipment, which help in expanding the communication platforms. An example of this is the unified Adhan (call for prayer) and the electronic screens. Dr Al Kaabi mentioned that the idea of the Adhan unification came about  to organise the announcement of the call for prayer across different mosques. This is a way to avoid  the overlapping in time between various loudspeakers and thus  present such a ritual in due form and reverence.
As for the electronic screens in mosques, they prove very useful in relaying religious materials, Fatwas and information about the GAIAE. The aim is to promote the religious discourse and spread the moderate Islamic thought. "The Awqaf website, in turn, provides several directive services to the public, including the Friday Khutba (sermon), online Fatwa via the "Al Murshid Al Amin" service at www.awqaf.gov.ae or by calling 8002422. Languages of delivery are Arabic, English and Urdu. Individuals can also send religious queries through SMS at 2535," Said Dr Al Kaabi.
Collaborative production 
The GAIAE would continue producing a unified  Friday Khutba in consistency with the strategic planning approach as adopted by various ministries and authorities which is  based on teamwork.  This way work is organised more around the institutional goals and depends less on the individual's mood, improvisation  or  personal emotions, Dr Al Kaabi said, adding that the Ministry of Education, for example, plans for an entire generation taking into consideration  various stages of learning. This also applies to  the Ministry of Culture and various media institutions.
"So if each authority or department has its own strategy on how to serve the community, the nation and humanity at large, then the many counseling bodies across the Islamic world should undertake the strategic planning to engineer and spread ideas amongst people weekly if not daily," Dr Al Kaabi said.
 This is the reason why the GAIAE has always adopted and encouraged a collaborative approach to the production of intellect, he mentioned.
To make this concept workable, the GAIAE had to attract the best scholars and researchers in various religious disciplines and set up qualified committees to oversee tasks relative to the preparation of Khutba, training of imams and preachers, issuance of  Fatwas, including the collaborative juristic reasoning,  writing of research and studies, review and editing of jurisprudential and other related studies.
These routine duties are carried out through such committees of the religious media, publication and research, religious advising and legal. So every individual works under a team, which enhances one's ability for development and production. "Since everyone is striving well for the sake of development, why should we not team up individual efforts to ensure a harmonious and sustainable output," said Dr Al Kaabi.
Religious lectures
Dr Al Kaabi revealed that the GAIAE intends to increase the number of religious lectures in mosques. Currently the department in charge of publication is preparing the second part of Durus Al Masajid (Mosque lectures). There are many new themes in this edition, and once it is available lectures will be offered on daily basis-instead of three times per week- in every mosque nationwide.
 With themes stemming from the Holy Quran and Sunna, interpretation, morality besides other Islamic cultural  content,  the new series of lectures will be clear, straightforward and short, of about ten minutes. Other subjects will also include human, national, societal values and  morality from an Islamic cultural point of view.
Adhering to its plans, GAIAE had released a number of booklets explaining religious rulings in a simplified manner and according to the Maliki Madhab- the school of Islamic jurisprudence followed in the UAE. The GAIAE published  also two books, one on the rules of Quran reading  (tajweed) and the second on terms regulating the administration of Waqf (endowment).
Areas of religion covered include rulings with regard to purity, prayer, funeral, Kusuf and Khusuf (solar and lunar  eclipse respectively)prayers, pray for rain,  Ghusl (the full ablution or ritual washing), purity, travel, ablution, wiping over hand palms, Jumaa (Friday) prayer, day prayers, Eid prayers and fasting Fatwas.
Memorisation of Quran 
Dr Al Kaabi emphasised that the GAIAE had always  been keen to place the Quran memorisation centres at the forefront of its interests, hence benefitting the society and the nation as a whole. He underscored the fact that the prudent UAE leadership since the late Sheikh Zayed bin sultan Al Nahyan has been dedicated to teaching generations of youth according to the lofty Islamic principles in accordance with the Quran and the Sunna. Sheikh Khalifa, the President of UAE, may Allah protect him, has taken over this task and continued to take care of young people and help them invest their time in beneficial pursuits.
Dr Al Kaabi also mentioned that the Department of Religious Centres and Institutes seeks to achieve a quantitative  and qualitative excellence  in the teaching and memorisation of the Holy Quran. The purpose is to help people from different age categories build a balanced and successful personality and guide them via the latest educational methods and learning programmes  to be the models for the community.
The memorisation centres have gradually increased in number. Currently there are 55 specialised centres and 400 Quranic memorsiation and learning sessions in mosques. The total number of registered students, male and female, amounts to more than 22,000.
For  energising and expanding the role of these centres to attract more learners, the GAIAE encourages activities such as the annual Quran memorisation contest, to which it allocates  valuable prizes. The GAIAE also holds religious seminars and ceremonies there to honour winners at the end of each session.
Preachers' skills
Dr Al Kaabi explained that the Awqaf Authority had to attract national competencies in Sharia or Arabic and Islamic studies in order to appoint them in the Departments of Preaching and Research and Censorship of Religious Publications. Should there be a shortage of Emiratis to fill in the required positions, qualified persons from Arab countries, then from other nationalities will be recruited for this purpose.
The GAIAE also sponsors some preachers, male and female, for masters and PhD  programmes in many  universities. Additionally, preachers, male and female, benefit from many workshops and training sessions relative to worship seasons of pilgrimage and fasting as well as to new developments  and issues concerning the religious discourse. They also profit from special training courses on public speech and oration in addition to jurisprudence on matters of worship, transactions and family issues.
 













