addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Dr Al Kaabi revealed that the GAIAE would increase the number of religious lectures in mosques, explaining that the Department in charge of publication is preparing the second part of Durus Al Masajid (Mosque lectures). There are many new themes in this edition, and once it is made available lectures will be delivered on daily basis-instead of three times per week- in every mosque nationwide.
 With themes revolving around the Holy Quran and Sunna, interpretation, morality in addition to other Islamic cultural  content,  the new series of lectures will be clear, straightforward and short, of about ten minutes. Other subjects will also include human, national and societal values and  morality from an Islamic cultural point of view.
Additionally, the GAIAE had released a number of booklets explaining religious rulings about purity and worship in a simplified manner and in accordance to the Maliki Madhab- the school of  jurisprudence followed in the UAE.
Dr Al Kaabi also highlighted that the GAIAE would place the Quran memorisation centres at the forefront of its priorities, hence benefitting the society and the nation as a whole. The memorisation centres have increased in number. There are 55 specialised centres and 400 Quranic memorisation and learning sessions in mosques. The total number of registered students, male and female, amounts to more than 22,000. 
For  energising and expanding the role of these centres to attract more learners, the GAIAE encourages activities as the annual Quran memorisation contest, to which it allocates  valuable prizes. The GAIAE holds religious seminars and ceremonies there to honour winners at the end of each session.
Dr Al Kaabi also mentioned that the Department of Religious Centres and Institutes seeks to achieve a quantitative  and qualitative excellence  in the teaching and memorisation of the Holy Quran. The purpose is to help the youth build a balanced and successful personality and guide them understand, memorise and recite the Holy Quran. 
 













