addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In the implementation of its strategic plan endorsed by the Cabinet and for the purpose of achieving faster and realistic achievements, the GAIAE organised its monthly workshop for its branches' directors and heads of departments. The meeting, which is held alternately  in various emirates, took place this time at the Al Ain Convention Centre in Al Ain. It was chaired by HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General and was also attended by the GAIAE's Executive Directors.  
Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Court, spoke of the importance of teamwork, describing it as a source of powerful performance. Yet, he said, the underlying strength lies in honesty, wisdom and the assertive attitude of the team members when handling problems.
Dr Al Kaabi inaugurated the forum by extending thanks and gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, The Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Brothers, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, for their valuable support. Such a special interest in the GAIAE  by the prudent leadership has indeed  led it to advanced levels in achieving its mission, he said.
He then thoroughly reviewed various points on the agenda in addition to different proposals and suggestions by the branch directors and other attendees. This included a detailed report by the Quran Memorising Centres' Department in which it detailed the condition of the Centres plus  other matters relative to facilities, needs, teaching staff and financial issues. Dr Al Kaabi advised the branch directors to follow up on a daily basis the situation of such Centres by conducting regular field visits and  submitting a brief monthly report at the level of each emirate. For this purpose, directors will have to engage in more outdoor assignments, overseeing many mosques, including those on external roads, memorising centres and Waqf properties.
 It is noteworthy that the highways are the entry points to the UAE, which also link different emirates together. That is why the GAIAE  gives great importance not only  to building more mosques there, but also to outfitting them with all facilities, including female prayer rooms as is becoming a requirement. In this regard, the participants recommended strongly  the need to study the establishment of female prayer sections in old mosques to make them on par with the new ones.
The workshop also reviewed the maintenance of mosques in the northern emirates in coordination with the concerned authorities and made observations in regard to some contracting companies that failed to implement their respective contracts. Accordingly, it mulled over ending agreements with noncompliant  companies in the future.
Dr Al kaabi further stressed  the necessity to coordinate with the Department of Mosques in order to implement the electronic system it is currently  developing. It is an integrated information tool that  allows updating data on mosques in terms of area,  assets, needs, periodic maintenance, monthly reports and staff.
The workshop wrapped up by examining vacations of imams and preachers and advice was given  on the means  on the recreation need for their children and families as other public employees in the UAE.













