addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 First sermon
 All praise is due to Allah, The Possessor of great bounties, the Ever Providing, who has mercy on His compassionate servants. All grace is due to Allah as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His great sovereignty  and virtues. I bear witness there is no deity except Him, before Whose command the heavens are raised and  through Whose permission the earth is laid out. He is The Dispeller of tribulation and of every hardship.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah and His dearest Servant, known for his benevolent character and immeasurable kindness. I pray to Allah, The Most Gracious, to grant His blessings upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his virtuous kin and kith and all those who will follow them in righteousness until the day of Judgment.
 O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct our lives in the shadow of Divine obedience, for Allah, the Almighty, says "O you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will [then] give you a double portion of His mercy and make for you a light by which you will walk and forgive you; and Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (Al Hadid:28).
 Dear Believers,
 Mercy is one of the attributes of Allah The Almighty as He says, "[O Muhammad], say, "Your Lord is the possessor of vast mercy." (Al Anaam:147). It is a quality due to Him in favour for His Creation and a show of His unparalleled Divine charity and clemency. Allah, The Exalted in might, says, "Your Lord has decreed upon Himself mercy." (Al Anaam:54). His mercy is so encompassing it has extended to everything as He says, "My mercy encompasses all things." (Al Aaraf:156).
 Describing the magnitude of Allah's mercy, our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Allah Almighty has divided mercy into one hundred parts. He kept ninety-nine parts and sent down one part to earth. Because of that one single part, creatures are merciful to one another so that even the mare will lift its hooves away from its foal so that it does not trample on it."
 Mercy is also one of the qualities of the prophets and messengers as when Allah, The Most High,  describes Muhammad (pbuh) saying, "So by mercy from Allah , [O Muhammad], you were lenient with them. And if you had been rude [in speech] and harsh in heart, they would have disbanded from about you. So pardon them and ask forgiveness for them." (Al Imran:159); "There has certainly come to you a Messenger from among yourselves. Grievous to him is what you suffer; [he is] concerned over you and to the believers is kind and merciful." (Al Tawba:128). He also describes the Prophet's companions for being "merciful among themselves." (Al Fath:29).
O Servants of Allah,
To be shown mercy, people need to be merciful to one another, for Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Those who have mercy on people will have mercy from God, the Most Merciful. If you have mercy on those on earth, the One in heaven will have mercy upon you." Verily, Allah's mercy will be meted out to those who are merciful to all creatures from humans, animals and plants.
 One of the reasons conducive to enjoying  Allah's mercy is being obedient to Him. Allah, the Most Compassionate, The Most Merciful says, "and obey Allah and the Messenger that you may obtain mercy." (Al Imran:132). Likewise, the good recitation of the Holy Quran and listening attentively to it attracts the Divine mercy, for Allah The Almighty says, "So when the Qur'an is recited, then listen to it and pay attention that you may receive mercy." (Al Aaraf:204).
 Asking forgiveness is also another reason for obtaining mercy from Allah, The Exalted in might as He says, "Why do you not seek forgiveness of Allah that you may receive mercy?" (Al Naml:46). Praying for divine clemency is in essence beseeching Allah, The Most Gracious, to bless His servants with pardon and compassion. Indeed He is The Most Generous Who responds to  those who call upon Him and gives to those who ask Him.
O Believers,
Mercy is a grace from Allah, The Most Compassionate is He, to those who request it amongst His servants. Truly the blessed are those who are granted the Divine Mercy because The Almighty does not preclude His mercy from His servants who are merciful to one another. And the miserable are those who are denied this blessing. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Allah Almighty will not show mercy on those who never show mercy on others." He also said, "mercy is removed only from those who are miserable."
As a matter of fact, the whole of humanity cannot survive without mercy and the greatest of all forms of compassion is treating one's parents kindly and mercifully. On this account, Allah, The Most High, says, "My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small." (Al Israa:24). The Show of mercy should permeate all of our interactions and relations as members of the community. Therefore, the head of the household has to be merciful to his wife and children by taking care of them and sponsoring them, and so is true for the strong in treating the weak, the doctor in attending to his patients, the teacher in educating his students with patience, the employer in dealing fairly with his employees and the merchant by not overpricing his goods.
 Equally, people should treat animals with mercy. It happened once that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) had entered an orchard belonging to one of the Ansars  where there was a camel. Upon the sight of Allah's Messenger, the animal looked sadly at him and shed tears. So Muhammad (pbuh) went to the animal and wiped the back of its head, behind it ears, and the camel stopped moaning. So Allah's Messenger asked, "to whom does this camel belong  ?" A man from the Ansars walked forward saying, "It's mine, O Messenger of Allah." Muhammad (pbuh) turned to the man and said, "Don't you fear Allah as with regards to this animal, which Allah has enabled you to own? It complained to me that you keep it hungry, overload it, and force it to work more than it can."
 May Allah make us among His merciful servants and help us all to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His words: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah
Please know that being lenient to each other would bring Allah's mercy on us. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) had therefore called on us to be compassionate to one another and avoid being harsh on each other. On the authority of Abu Musa Al Ashaari (may Allah be pleased with him) he heard the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) saying, "you will not enter Paradise until you show mercy to one another." They said, "O Messenger of Allah, we are all merciful," He then said, "The merciful amongst you he who is compassionate not only to his family and closest circle, but also to all."
O Servants of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah Whose mercy has encompassed all things, we implore You to bless us with Your vast mercy, You the Lord of the Worlds. O Allah grant us Your compassion and make us independent through Your mercy of everyone except Yourself. We supplicate to You, the Almighty, to accept our Duaa, grant us repentance unto You and guide us to fulfill actions to earn Your mercy, forgiveness and spells. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
  We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













