addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments organised the annual religious ceremony commemorating  the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan mosque in  Abu Dhabi last Sunday.
 From amongst those present were HE Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, HE Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court, Their Excellencies the executive directors of the GAIAE, as well as a number of scholars, the diplomatic corps and many attendees from various walks of life.
The ceremony was inaugurated by reading verses from the Holy Quran followed by a speech by Dr Al Kaabi in which he extended his congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of UAE, may Allah protect him, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, The Vice President , Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates, and General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He also extended his  best wishes  to the UAE Crown Princes  and to all people of the UAE, praying to  Allah, The Most Almighty to return this occasion with plentiful of progress and prosperity and bestow His mercy  and forgiveness upon the founder of the United Arab Emirates, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.
Dr Al Kaabi highlighted the merits of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in being tolerant and compassionate with women, children and the disabled, and mentioned many situations that illustrated the Prophet's attitude. Dr Al Kaabi also stressed that the GAIAE shoulders the responsibility of achieving the vision laid down by the astute UAE leadership with the aim of promoting the values of compassion, tolerance and understanding within the UAE society.
In this respect, the GAIAE acts as a leading institution in the UAE in promoting social awareness and progress on the basis of the tolerant teachings of Islam while it is fully aware of current realities and understands future challenges. For the good of  society, it achieves these lofty values through Friday sermons, religious lectures in mosques, the preaching plan, seminars in schools, universities, community institutions, radio and television programmes besides Quran memorisation centres.
This way it strives to  prepare a generation of people aware of its religion in accordance to principles of moderation and tolerance, compassion and charity. The ultimate aim is to lead them to build the nation and preserve its gains and achievements.
Other speakers focused on various aspects of the Prophet's life among his kith and kin as well as with other people. Sheikh Abdul Rahman Ammoura spoke of the value of following the example of the companions of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), who were infinitely blessed by his advent. Sheikh Ammoura said the Prophet (pbuh) led them out from darkness to light and filled their hearts with love and compassion.
"Today we are in dire need of fostering the love of our Prophet Muhammad peace be upon him in us and converting this feeling into peace and compassion in our communities," said sheikh Ammoura. Omar Darei, a postgraduate student at Mohammed V University, Abu Dhabi branch, eloquently addressed the attendees when speaking about the meanings and purpose of the Quranic  verse: "There has certainly come to you a Messenger from among yourselves. Grievous to him is what you suffer; [he is] concerned over you and to the believers is kind and merciful." (Al Tawbah :128).
He expounded upon this by saying that the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) is an occasion that emits blessed breezes for lovers of Muhammad (pbuh), one that should propel in us the love for our people and nation. It should also be a season of blessings and glad tidings. He concluded his speech by supplicating to Allah, The Most High, to make of this occasion a blessing  for our beloved  leadership and country and for all Muslims with peace, safety and stronger faith.
Sheikh Mohammed Abdul Rahman spoke  of the status of  poetry in the era of prophethood and in the subsequent  Islamic periods. He then recited a poem, which received wide appreciation from the audience.  The ceremony closed with by a speech on behalf of the imams delivered by sheikh Ahmad Mutawea, who underscored the importance of educating the youth according to the Prophet's tradition throughout the stages of prophethood. The aim, he said, was to help young people grow familiar with the merits of Muhammad (pbuh) and endorse them as example in their lives.
The presenter of the  ceremony was Naser Al Yamahi, a postgraduate student at Mohammed V University, Abu Dhabi branch.
 













