addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Mafhas Al Qatah programme has yielded  60 AED mn since its launch two years ago. The proceeds are spent on the construction, equipment  and maintenance of mosques nationwide.
In an a statement to Al Ittihad newspaper, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi said that this year's campaign was the third of its kind and was part of a larger project named: Mosques Are Our Civilisation Landmarks, aimed at encouraging the wider public to contribute to the construction of mosques across the country.
On this occasion, he underscored the positive response by the public from all walks of life to the programme since its commencement, saying that the GAIAE has taken this initiative to allow for those with limited income to contribute in this noble work and ensure its success. "The dense population and fast urbanisation requires us to take part in the construction, equipment and  maintenance of mosques. Thanks to the Programme proceeds, 30 mosques were built last Ramadan in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi alone," he said.
Among the mosques built are  Haya Al Mazrouei Mosque in the Western Region, Mohammed Matar Al Raei Al Nasja mosque  in Al Ain, Mohammed Jazlan Al Mazrouei in Abu Dhabi, Al Hamad mosques in Umm Al Quawain and Abdul Rahman Al Naslan mosque in Ras Al Khaimah. Another six mosques are currently under construction across the UAE, All of which are financed by the proceeds of The Mafhas Al Qatah programme.
As for the promotion plan, Dr Al Kaabi said, "Although the GAIAE has had a wide spectrum of platforms for doing this through thousands of mosques, it called on people to participate in the building of mosques via one unified Friday sermon. There were also organised field visits to schools, sport clubs, firms and companies, banks and business people to publicise the programme. Such efforts were combined all along by an extensive media coverage."
Organisationally, Dr Al Kaabi said that donations can be done in three ways: by purchasing coupons of AED 200, which are  distributed by Waqf representatives, placing monthly contributions of a similar amount, managed by the Customer Service Centre at the GAIAE. The third channel is through SMS worth AED 200 each.
The said programme is not limited to the building of mosques but it also covers their restoration, maintenance, cleanliness and  furnishing as well as the provision of copies of the Holy Quran and all other requirements that ensure tranquillity and serenity for worshippers. Dr Al Kaabi said that the UAE boast the best mosques in the Arab and Muslim world thanks to the special care of the astute UAE leadership.
Her further mentioned  that this programme would continue in the future as the campaign has proved to be successful. Many points of fundraising are assigned nationwide, in shopping centres and many government departments and institutions. On this occasion, Dr Al Kaabi urged individuals and the civil society to contribute to the building  of mosques and caretaking of them with the aim of nurturing  a positive attitude towards the houses of Allah.
 













