addthis_pub="newawqaf";















  In the regular monthly field tour, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, met imams, preachers and muezzins representing Al Ain and the Eastern Region at the Al Ain Convention Centre. Also present were the GAIAE's Executive Directors, Branches' Directors and Heads of Departments. The region has the highest percentage of mosques and more than 1400 imams and preachers.
 The gathering came in line with the Awqaf's strategic plan as approved by the Cabinet, which outlines regular meetings with imams, preachers and muezzins in the emirates where they are based. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss ways to improve the overall performance.
 At the outset of the meeting, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince,  spoke of the religious and ethical aspects related to the status of this segment of society. He then highlighted  the role of mosques in the community and that of imams mentioning that in each Rakaa (kneeling) they recite: "Guide us to the straight path," the one and the unique path and not separate ways.
 Dr Al Kaabi opened his speech by extending his sincere thanks to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, The Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Brothers Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, wishing them good health and lasting success. "After Allah, The Most High, it is they who have made this country enjoy such security, prosperity and progress," he said.
  "I am conveying  to you the greetings of HE the GAIAE's Chairman and his appreciation of your good services to the houses of Allah  as you are striving to make them a centre of guidance and education for all members of the community," told the attendees.
 He added: "Today we continue together with you efforts for upgrading mosques, both in terms of their mission and maintenance to an advanced stage. Such interest would reflect the development and excellence trends  that mark all aspects of life in the UAE and lead all plans for the future.
 "Because imams and preachers are the focus of attention, they need to be aware of their status and set the role model for others in intellectual, moral and social honesty. They should likewise be attentively caring about the mosques and be concerned with addressing  any issues related thereto. As mosques mirror our civilisation, faith and guidance, imams have the responsibility to promote this praiseworthy culture. Thus we have to remind ourselves by asking if worshippers after leaving the mosque would experience any self-improvement. If no, there should be  something wrong."
 
In a purposeful dialogue, the meeting discussed various administrative issues related to mosque staff, and was followed by a recommendation to the concerned departments to respond to legal and administrative requirements that would  bring the occupational satisfaction up to the required level.
 Earlier in the morning, Dr Al Kaabi accompanied with the GAIAE's Executive Directors and Head of Departments met the local staff, and briefed them on the strategies in dealing with the public and managing mosques and endowment affairs. On this occasion he called on everybody to be self aware of their responsibilities and the honesty with which they should discharge them.
 "The wise leadership has spared no effort in providing us with full support. For this reason, staff members should draw on a high sense of belonging to this leadership, nation and institution," he said, adding "what has been done in three years could not have been possible even in ten years without this high sense of responsibility and belonging. In fact a stronger sense of identification is likely to yield more achievements, better productivity and constructive innovative initiatives.
 "Please bear in mind those are your Sheikhs and leaders, may Allah protect them, and this is your country and institution.  So you are highly advised  to show due loyalty and devotion as required," concluded Dr Al Kaabi.
 













