addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















The GAIAE launched the Arabic domain name of its official website, typed in Arabic script: (Awqaf.emarat). The move came about in due compliance of website guidelines  for  federal entities as set by the UAE Electronic Government board and was in coordination with the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA). It is also part of the government's efforts to promote  the use of the Arabic language in state bodies and in the community.
It was a breakthrough in telecommunications achievements in the region when the UAE through TRA won the approval of the Internet Corporation  Assigned for Names and Numbers (ICCAN) to use the internet domain in Arabic, placing the UAE a pioneer in this field. UAE is among the first four countries in the world to be allowed to register domain names in their official languages.
The GAIAE's Director General, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, said the Awqaf Authority was among  the first  government  bodies to make its website accessible through its Arabic domain name. It can be reached by typing in Arabic script:  (Awqaf.emarat). The first letter Alif   (ا)  in the word Awqaf in Arabic  must have a Hamza (ء). The GAIAE's website will be further accessible as users, whether Arabs or foreigners,  can either access it through its Arabic or English domain names.
 He explained that browsing the website in Arabic would be easier for those who know the Arabic language, noting that the Arabic system would also offer several privileges to individuals and companies such as the easy transfer of data and information in Arabic worldwide, a better recall of the Arabic domain name, optimal search results, and a likely increase of Arab Internet users. All of this, he said, would help the public to communicate effectively with the GAIAE, its different departments and branches nationwide. It would likewise expand the scope of social networking to provide faster services to the public inside and outside UAE.
 













