addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 All praise is due to Allah, The Most Generous Who responds to those who call upon Him and gives to those who ask Him. Whosoever puts trust in Allah, The Most High, then He will suffice him.  I duly praise Allah no less than His most pious servants have done: they  have supplicated  to their Creator and He, The Most Bountiful, satisfied their hopes and wishes in return.
  I bear witness there is no deity except Him. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah and His dearest Servant. He was the most sincere in his Duaa to Allah, The Most Gracious is He.  I pray to Allah, The Most Compassionate, to grant His blessings upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his kin and kith and all those who will follow them in righteousness until the day of Judgment.
 O Servants of Allah, 
I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct our lives in the shadow of Divine obedience, for Allah, the Almighty, says "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
Dear Believers,
Allah, The Most Exalted has commanded His servants to pray, making  their Duaa a means to beseech Him and come closer to Him. Since any creature is frail and constantly in need for Allah's protection, those who humbly seek Allah's help will surely succeed and ascend to higher levels. Truly Allah is The All and Ever Dependent to Whom His Creation resort either at hardship or prosperity, for He says, "And your Lord says, 'Call upon Me; I will respond to you'." (Ghafir:60).
Invocations are the essence of worship, an act through which the faithful address their Creator while sensing their imperfection and firmly believing in Allah's illumined might to gratify their request. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Duaa is worship."  To the Almighty Allah, there is nothing worth so much as his Creation submissively supplicating to Him. This  is affirmed by Muhammad (pbuh) when saying, "There is nothing nobler to Allah than Duaa."
Praying to Allah has certain etiquettes as well as reasons for acceptance. We should resort to Allah, The Most Exalted, in good or bad times and always be close to Him so He would recompense us with prosperity. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "whoever wants Allah to accept his invocations when in adversity he should pray to him in times of prosperity as well. "
Similarly, acceptance of Duaa is linked to the Faithfull's firm belief in Allah's infinite ability to respond to their invocation and fulfill their needs, as our Prophet said, "Make Duaa with a certainty that Allah will response." Having Duaa combined with faith is one of the factors that relieves distress and brings forth comfort. He also said, "Whoever is stricken with poverty and turns to Allah, Allah will send him provision sooner or later." Also offering supplications with full presence of heart and humbleness is conducive to response. Our prophet said on this matter:  "know that God does not respond to prayer from the heart of an obliviously insensible."
By the same token, Allah The Most High praised some of His messengers who invoked Him in fear as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His great sovereignty. Allah, The Most Gracious, said, "they used to hasten to good deeds and supplicate Us in hope and fear, and they were to Us humbly submissive." (Al Anbiyaa:90).
O Servants of Allah,
One of the reasons for acceptance of Duaa is to start with exalting  Allah The Most High by praising His Divine attributes and sending blessings on the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh). Umar ibn Al Khattab (may Allah be pleased with him) narrated that supplication is suspended between the heaven and earth, nothing from it ascending, till you invoke blessing on your Prophet (pbuh).
 Seeking Halal (the permissible) in food, clothing and other necessities of life is another reason for acceptance of one's Duaa, for Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Allah The Almighty is good and accepts only that which is good... Then he mentioned the case of a man, who had journeyed far, is disheveled and dusty and who spreads his hands to the sky saying: O Lord, O Lord while his food is Haram (unlawful), his drink is Haram, his clothing is Haram and he has been nourished with Haram. So how can his supplication be answered? "
Furthermore, a Muslim praying for his Muslim brother in absence is a sign of  genuine love among Muslims. Muhammad (pbuh) said, "praying for a Muslim brother behind his back  is accepted as there is no believing servant who supplicates for his brother in his absence that the Angels do not say: The same be for you too'." Perseverance in making Duaa would also lead to its acceptance by the grace of Allah. Abdullah bin Masood (may Allah be pleased with him) reported that when Muhammad (pbuh) made Duaa or asked Allah he would repeat it three times.
O Lord respond to our supplications, satisfy our hopes and grant Your acceptance to our good deeds, Ameen. May help us all to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His words: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59).
  May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please know that response to Duaa may be delayed if a praying person rush to get an immediate answer. Muhammad (pbuh) said, "The invocation of anyone of you is answered  (by Allah) unless he rushes to say: 'I prayed to Allah but my request has not been granted'."
  Allah, The All Knowing, may also delay acceptance for a reason that only He knows. On the narration of Abi Saad Al Khudari that Muhammad (pbuh) said,  "No Muslim supplicates to Allah with a Duaa that does not involve sin or cutting the relations of the womb, but Allah will grant him one of the three things: He will either hasten the response to his supplication, save it for him until the Hereafter, or  would turn an equivalent amount of evil away from him.'' They said, 'what if we were to recite more Duaa.' He said, 'There is more with Allah'."
 Dear Muslims,
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah grant us repentance unto You and guide us to fulfill actions to earn Your mercy, forgiveness and spells. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
  May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
  We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
  O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













