addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Matar Al Kaabi  toured the memorisation centres in Ajman and was briefed on the course of study there. On the occasion he praised the support of the wise UAE leadership to these institutions, highlighting, at the same time, the special interest and continuous endorsement by HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, the Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ajman.
"In accordance to its strategic plan as approved by the Cabinet, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and endowments seeks to devote more attention to the Quranic learning, whether to do with its recitation, memorisation or further contemplation into its meaning. We will achieve this by opening and supervising centres nationwide," said Dr Al Kaabi.
The GAIAE also organises two Quran memorisation sessions in mosques each year, which are held according to the need of each area. Such sessions are aimed at school students and the elderly, male and female. The figures put the number of learners at the Quran memorisation centres at 22,000, 7,399 of whom attend mosque sessions.
 Concerning the model Quranic centres, Dr Al Kaabi mentioned that there were nine across the UAE, including the Union Model Centre in Al Jurf area, being the first of its kind in Ajman Emirate. There are 63 students, 30 males and 33 females, who attend evening classes in the Centre, an initiative by the GAIAE  to encourage Emirati students to learn and study Quran as well as to offer graduation for those who succeed in memorising the whole Quran.  
 Overall, Ajman Emirate has 48 centres, 38 for male students, six for females and four for the elderly. More than 940 learners attended these centres.
 Obeid Hamad Al Zaabi, the Director of the GAIAE's Branch in Ajman, said that the GAIAE also supervises six  of the community Quranic centres in Ajman. Their licences are issued, updated and verified according to the information management system of the Quran memorisation centres which the GAIAE has recently upgraded.













