addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Official Fatwa Centre answered  about 1,192,219 religious queries from its inception in 2008 to January this year, Mr Mohammed Obeid Rashid Al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's Executive Director stated. Questions were relayed either over the phone, through text messages or online.
Al Mazrouei attributed this large number to the increase in phone calls and generally to a high demand by the public for the Centre's services.  People are also positive about  the role of the GAIAE  as an official and religious reference authority as far as fatwa is concerned,  he said.
 The substantial stock of fatwas available would make it easy to access them for further reference when need be. "The Centre has answered since its establishment in 2008 and until January 1,13,578 phone calls, 131,316 text messages and 20,387 online messages," Mr Al Mazrouei said.
 Offered in three languages: Arabic, English and Urdu,  Fatwas were related to worship, transactions, family, women issues, among others.
On this occasion, Mr Al Mazrouei extended his heartfelt gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, The Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Brothers Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces,  for their unrelenting support. He also thanked Muftis, who had at times offered  willingly to continue providing services at the expense of their vacations.
 The Fatwa Centre is available from 8 am to 8 pm during working days and receives queries via the toll free number 8002422 in three languages: Arabic, English and Urdu, SMS at 2535, maximum 200 characters, and online at www.awqaf.org.ae.
Since last year Du telecommunications company users could also send SMS at the same number (2535), which has enabled a wide range of public to access Fatwa services. The Centre will continue receiving questions during annual vacations to attend to people's needs in full consideration of their sincere interests in understanding various religious provisions relative to their daily lives.













