addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















The GAIAE in the Western Region inaugurated the Ahmad Khalifa Al Suwaidi Mosque in Madinat Zayed on Monday 27, 2012.  
The inaugural ceremony was attended by Mr Saeed bin Rasasi al Mansouri, the executive director of citizen services in the Ruler's Representative Court in the Western Region, Mr Sultan Zayed al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's branch director in the Western Region, Mr Ahmed Sayf al Hamili, director of ADNOC for Distribution in the Western Region  in addition to a number of officials and members of the community. 
The newly built mosque cost AED 1 mn, with a capacity of 500 worshippers. It was outfitted with all necessary amenities, including a female prayer room and accommodations for both the imam and the muezzin. The mosque was also furnished with the finest carpets and connected to the Unified Adhan system.  
Mr al Mansouri praised the  benefactors for their contributions to the construction and maintenance of the houses of Allah. He also extended his thanks to the GAIAE for all types of support, whether to do with the provision of land plots or engineering plans, it  had given to philanthropists in order to carry out their charitable actions. 
Mr Al Mazrouei mentioned that the GAIAE sought to build mosques that reflect the modern  urban development and are consistent with the distribution of population. "The new mosque is part of an expansion plan to increase the number of mosques, which also  reflects  the urban development the region is witnessing  thanks to the vision and interest of  HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the UAE, may Allah protect him,  and the support of HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme commander of the UAE armed Forces, as well as the follow up of HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, The Ruler's Representative in the Western Region. 
Ahmed Khalifa al Suwaidi Mosque is the fifth mosque that was opened during the last six months in the Western Region.













