addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
All praise is due to Allah, The Greatest, Most Compassionate, Most Merciful, Owner and Bestower of the great favour and tremendous bounties. He urges His servants to hasten to do good and involve themselves in all that leads to  righteousness. I testify that there is no deity except Allah. He has no Associate; to Him belongs all sovereignty and praise. He gives life and causes death and He is over all things.
 I also testify that our Master Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah and His Servant, who  used to pray to Allah, the Most Gracious is He, saying, "I beg Your favour (power) to do good deeds, and abandon abominable deeds." Oh Allah, send Your abundant peace and blessing upon Your Servant and Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions, and whoever follows his guidance until the last day.
O Servants of Allah, 
I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct our lives in the shadow of Divine obedience, for Allah, the Almighty, says "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has ordered us to perform good actions for there will be glad tidings for those who strive to do so, as He says, "and do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj:77). Performing righteous deeds is thus a Divine order and a religious duty. It reassures the self and brings satisfaction. Moreover, good deeds are part and parcel of the prophets' message for Allah, The Exalted in Might, says, "and We made them leaders guiding by Our command. And We inspired to them the doing of good deeds, establishment of prayer, and giving of Zakat; and they were worshippers of Us." (Al Anbiyaa:73).
Allah, the Most High, also says, "so race to [all that is] good." (Al Baqara:148). In compliance with such Divine commands, our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) had been throughout his life perseverant in performing the best of acts. This way he set the example for his Companions and shaped their behavior accordingly. Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him) was one of those who excelled in good work. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) once asked his companions: "who has observed fast among you today?" Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him) replied: "It is I." He then (the Prophet) said, "who among you followed a funeral today?" Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him) replied: "It is I." He (again) said, "who among you visited an ill person today?" Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him) replied: "It is I." Upon this the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said, "anyone in whom these good deeds are combined will certainly enter paradise."
 O Servants of Allah,
 The reward for those who race to do good deeds is Allah's love and His Paradise where they will be freed from all distress and worries. Allah the Almighty says, "then we caused to inherit the Book those We have chosen of Our servants; and among them is he who wrongs himself, and among them is he who is moderate, and among them is he who is foremost in good deeds by permission of Allah . That [inheritance] is what is the great bounty. [For them are] gardens of perpetual residence which they will enter." (Fatir:32-33).
Our Master's Companions were the most keen within their community to hasten towards good actions. Umar ibn Al Khattab (may Allah be pleased with him), for example, grasped the true value of such a lofty pursuit and was eager to compete with Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him). He said, "One day, the Messenger of Allah, prayers and peace of Allah be upon him, commanded us to give charity. At that time I had some property, so I said, 'Today I shall surpass Abu Bakr if I surpass him any day.' I, therefore, brought half of my property. The Messenger of Allah, prayers and peace of Allah be upon him, asked, 'What have you left for your family?' I replied, 'The same amount.' Abu Bakr brought all that he had with him. The Messenger of Allah asked him, 'What have you left for your family?' He replied, 'I have left Allah and His Messenger for them.' I said, 'I shall never compete with him in anything.'"
Dear Muslims,
 Allah, The Most Exalted in Might, has opened for us wide doors for achieving good actions, for each one of us within his own ability. Therefore no one has any excuse for not taking the initiative to engage in righteous deeds even if it is small. By doing this, each believer can rise to the rank of  the virtuous people, those who sincerely seek excellence in piety through all that is good of actions. Truly, righteous deeds are a reason for expiating sins and raising the status of the faithful. Allah, The Most High, says, "And those who believe and do righteous deeds - We will surely remove from them their misdeeds and will surely reward them according to the best of what they used to do." (Al Ankaboot:7).
 In the same regard, Abu Dhar al Ghafari (may Allah be pleased with him) narrated that The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) said: "Sadaqa (charity) is for every person every day the sun rises." I said: "O Messenger of Allah (pbuh) from what do we give Sadaqa if we do not possess property?' He (pbuh) said: "The doors of Sadaqa are Takbeer (i.e., to say: Allahu Akbar); Tahleel (Subhan-Allah); Tahmeed (Alhamdulillah); La -ilaha-illallah; and Astaghfirul-lah; enjoining good; forbidding evil; removing thorns, bones, and stones from the paths of people; guiding the blind; listening to the deaf and dumb until you understand them; guiding a person to his object of need if you know where it is; hurrying with the strength of your legs to one in sorrow who is appealing for help; and supporting the weak with the strength of your arms. These are all doors of Sadaqa."
These are some of the good actions that we should hasten to perform and  that we should not belittle. Nor should we underestimate their reward. Allah, The Most Exalted, says, "So whoever does an atom's weight of good will see it." (Al Zalzala:7). O Allah help us to do good things and help us all to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His words: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers, 
Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) guided us to invest in good work. There are many ways to do that, for example but not limited to, reciting Quran, invoking Allah, The Most Gracious, establishing  optional prayers, giving out the excess food to the needy, fasting three days every month, being a good neighbour, preserving the ties of kinship, visiting the ill person, assisting the needy, feeding the hungry, sponsoring orphans and widows, and praying for Muslims in their absence.
So, dear Muslims, hasten to do good as Muhammad (pbuh) said, "On every Muslim there is enjoined (a compulsory) Sadaqa." They (people) said, "if one has nothing?" He said, "He should work with his hands so that he may benefit himself and give in charity." They said, "if he cannot work or does not work?" He said, "then he should help the oppressed unhappy person (by word or action)." They said, "if he does not do it?" He said, "then he should enjoin what is good (or said what is reasonable)." They said, "if he does not do that?" He said, "then he should refrain from doing evil, for that will be considered for him as a Sadaqa."
O Believers of Allah,
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, help us to do the good things and grant us the favour of Your acceptance. O Allah, guide us to the best deeds, for none can guide to the best of them but You.
O Allah, we turn to You in repentance, put our hope and  trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
  We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
  O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).
 













