addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In coordination with the GAIAE, the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research (ECSSR) undertook a field survey using the mystery shopping as an observational technique. The tool was intended to measure the performance and the quality of Awqaf's public services.
The assessment looked into the feedback of users of the GAIAE's services through SMS at 2535, phone calls at 8002422, the Official Fatwa Centre toll-free number, the email and the webportal.
The GAIAE obtained 76 per cent appraisal from the mystery shopper. The SMS factor topped the list by 88 per cent, followed by the website,78 per cent,  and the Official Fatwa Centre, 76  per cent. The communication with the public through emails got 60 per cent only.
The results were revealed by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, who said, "this report is part of the Awqaf's strategic plan as endorsed by the Cabinet, which puts into action the vision  of the prudent UAE leadership to improve the level of performance, develop the quality of services provided to the public and upgrade the standards of excellence."
The results commended the efficient communication with the public via SMS, reporting that 97 per cent of secret shoppers were attended to in due time, although 43 per cent of the text messages had been sent during holidays and 50 per cent of them outside working hours. The majority of shoppers stated that the SMS service was conveniently accessible all the time. As many as 90 per cent of shoppers said they could  easily get the service, 88 percent mentioned  they were able to understand the response fully and 80 per cent found the replies appropriate.
Results showed that 100 per cent of shoppers, agreed that it had been easy to access the website at www.awqaf.gov.ae and a large majority of up to 87 per cent mentioned that it had been easy to search for information on the website. The survey covered various web menus and contents, online services in addition to other aspects related to the design, the layout, the interactive features, and the updating of information. It is worth mentioning that the GAIAE website has previously won national and international prizes, most important of which was  the Technological Innovation Prize in the category of state agencies and official authorities for the 2011 E-Government Web Awards.
Skills of Muftis in communicating with the public also received acclaim, with. According to the report,  76 per cent of secret shoppers rated Muftis' abilities and expertise as excellent, and 81 to 83 percent said the Fatwa panel handle the public queries professionally and politely. A large majority of shoppers, 98 per cent, confirmed that Muftis had been able to provide religious opinions on various subjects without putting the callers  to wait for a long time. The ECSSR's report gave some remarks and suggested areas of possible improvements in relation to communication outlets.
Dr Al Kaabi attributed this excellent performance to the close follow up by the GAIAE's Board of Directors and the combined efforts of all staff members for achieving the aspirations of the wise UAE leadership to offer the best and most convenient services.
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi extended his  thanks to the ECSSR for the efforts it had invested in conducting this survey, and highlighted the fact that the Centre is the specialised and independent research authority in UAE in this kind of studies. He also praised its high academic and research status worldwide.
 













