addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general toured the Quran memorisation centres in Ras  Al Khaimah and Umm Al Quwain and was briefed on the course of study there. On the occasion he commended the support of HH Sheikh Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah and HH Sheikh Saud bin Rashid Al Mualla, Member of the supreme Council and Ruler of Umm Al Quwain.
Dr al Kaabi said that based on its strategic plan as approved by the Cabinet the Awqaf seeks to devote more attention to the Quranic learning, whether to do with its recitation, memorisation or further contemplation into its meaning. He added that this would be achieved by opening and supervising centres nationwide.
The memorisation focus sessions are held according to the need of each area, and are aimed at school students and the elderly, male and female. The figures put the number of students at these centres at 22,000, some 7,399 of whom attend the mosque sessions.
Concerning the Quranic model centres, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that there were nine across the UAE, including the Sheikh Zayed Centre in Ras Al Khaimah, which was attended by 129 students, male and female, during evening sessions. Similar centres are those of Maryam bint Abdullah in Um Al Quwain with 25 female students and the Abu Hanifa al Nuaman Mosque with 23 male students.
The GAIAE's branch director in Ras Al Khaimah, Mr Ali Rashid al Khanbooli, said that there were 67 centres and sessions devoted to the Quranic studies across Ras Al Khaimah, of which 58 for male and nine for female. About 722 students attend these centres. The Awqaf's branch also supervises six community Quranic centres with 513 students. Their licences are issued, updated and verified according to the information management system of the Quran memorisation centres which the GAIAE has recently upgraded.
As for Umm Al Quwain, Mr Mohammed Ibrahim Hamid, the Awqaf's branch director in the Emirate, said that there were 23 centres overall, 17 for males and six for females, which were attended by 544 students.
 













