addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 

First sermon
 
All praise is for Allah, the Lord of all beings. I exalt Him as is befitting to Him and I bear witness that there is no deity except Allah Alone, having no partners. I also testify that Muhammd is Allah's Messenger and Servant, who of all people reached the highest reverence and had the most outstanding character. May the peace of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions and those who follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
O Servants of Allah,  I urge you and myself to be God-conscious and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, for Allah, The Almighty, says "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
 Dear Muslims, 
 Islam has paid great  attention to protecting and taking care of the family, which is a blessing from Allah, The Almighty, Who says, "And Allah has made for you from yourselves mates and has made for you from your mates sons and grandchildren and has provided for you from the good things. Then in falsehood do they believe and in the favor of Allah they disbelieve?"  (Al Nahl:72).
The family is the nucleus of the society. That is why it is important to have one that is coherent, stable and able to assume its responsibilities in maintaining and promoting societal values, customs and traditions. Such a task lies primarily with the parents, who should set a good example because children tend to follow their parent's footsteps.
 Upbringing children in accordance with the moral values and religious principles falls right within the framework of Allah's orders and is a means to earn His satisfaction. It is also mutually beneficial to both the individual and to the community, as it contributes to their prosperity on many levels. This is also how prophets and messengers of Allah, The Most High, used to rear their children. Allah, The Most Gracious, says in this regard, "And Abraham instructed his sons [to do the same] and [so did] Jacob, [saying], "O my sons, indeed Allah has chosen for you this religion, so do not die except while you are Muslims." (Al Baqara:132).
 Among the responsibilities of the parents towards their children is to guide them to goodness and help them choose their friends, for our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "A person's spiritual practice is only as good as that of his close friends; so consider well whom you befriend." Accordingly parents should overcome their busy life, as much as possible,  to spend some time with their kids to engage in dialogue with them, for this is very useful in enriching their thoughts, developing their talents and correcting their misconceptions.
 O Servant of Allah,
In many instances, the holy Quran has outlined the foundations that ensure happiness and stability of the family. Among these are the kinship bonds based on mutual respect and harmony, which are essential to produce an interconnected family. Only this kind of stable and cohesive family is able to surmount difficulties and face challenges. Thus the husband must respect his wife and treat her kindly in compliance with Allah's Command: "And live with them in kindness." (Al Nisaa:19). The wife, for her part, should seek ways to respect her husband, preserve his rights and be obedient to him, as Allah, The Most High, says, "And due to the wives is similar to what is expected of them, according to what is reasonable. But the men have a degree over them [in responsibility and authority]. And Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise." (Al Baqara:228). Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) stressed the importance of mutual respect for the younger people as well as for the elderly, when he said, "he belongs not to us (i.e., not a true Muslim) who neither respects the elder nor shows sympathy for the younger."
Dear Muslims,
 For the stability of the family, the Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) also  advised us to be delicate in speech. The good word should be the norm when the husband and wife converse because it is the key to unite the hearts and please the minds. For both of them, it is the ultimate pursuit in their relationship. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "a good word is charity."
 This, in turn, requires of the couple to avoid turning their household into a stage for unnecessary "show"  of their differences before their children. The successful family is rather the one which can address problems wisely and discretely at home. Revealing the household secrets  to outsiders is most likely to exacerbate the dispute out of proportion, hence delaying  any potential settlement. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) advised husbands to be rational in dealing with problems and if there was a dispute with his wife or a member of his family, he should seek dialogue and positive persuasion as a solution. Amr bin Absa reported that he called on the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) and asked him, "O Messenger of Allah, what is Islam? He (Muhammad -pbuh) said, 'the good word'."
May Allah, The Most Provident,  protect our children and bestow upon them from His grace, whatever their condition is, with consciousness of what is right.
 May Allah help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey,  in compliance with His words: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (An-Nisa:59). May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
 One of the greatest factors that binds us together as members of the family and perpetuate love and intimacy is honouring our parents, a behaviour that is higher in status than a mere feeling of respect. Honouring parents requires of us to hold sincere esteem for them. Allah, The Most Gracious, describes His servants' appreciation for their parents and comparing it with gratitude for their Lord when He says, "And We have enjoined upon man [care] for his parents. His mother carried him, [increasing her] in weakness upon weakness, and his weaning is in two years. Be grateful to Me and to your parents; to Me is the [final] destination." (Luqman:14).
 When it comes to motherhood, Islam attaches even greater respect and esteem to the mother as her status in Islam outweighs that  of the father by three folds. This is because of her central role in maintaining the household stability. It is very common that brothers when they are in dispute come to their mother for a settlement, and when they are in distress they rush to her for solace. After all, it is she who makes men and educate generations.
Also for her merits, Allah, The Most Gracious is He, has promised those who duly honours her an abode in the Paradise as a reward. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) enjoined a man who came to him to always serve his mother,  seek to please and treat her kindly, saying, "then stay with her, for the Paradise is under her feet."
O Believers of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah perpetuate compassion and tranquility among spouses and guide our offspring to that which is good. May Allah make them honour their parents and serve their community and nation.
 O Allah, we turn to You in repentance, put our hope and  trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













