addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is to Allah, Who creates from the very beginning , and He can restore life. He is the Oft-Forgiving, Full of Loving-Kindness, The Lord of The Throne of Glory. He does without let of all that He intends. He enjoins upon His servants to obey him, and promises them an abode in the Paradise. I exalt Him as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues and I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah Alone, having no associates. He cherishes the pious of His Creation, pledging to increase their deeds and efface their sins.
 I also bear witness that Muhammad is the Servant and Messenger of Allah. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions and those who follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
 O Servants of Allah,  I urge you and myself to be God-conscious and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, for Allah, The Almighty, says " O you who have believed, fear Allah as He should be feared and do not die except as Muslims [in submission to Him]. " (Al Imran:102).
O Believers of Allah,
 Taqwa is a Divine commandment to His servants now and before as He says,  "And We have instructed those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah." (Anissaa:131). Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) also instructed his companions to fear Allah saying, "I enjoin you to fear Allah," for piety is a merit of the most sincere faith. It encompasses all causes of good and excellence, and  is a matter of taking one's inner faith to stay away from all that he fears and believes is prohibited.   
 Taqwa is a feeling and an attitude to prevent the believer from everything that may lead him to Allah's wrath, and hence His torment. So the only way to fulfill Allah's satisfaction is through our compliance with his orders and avoidance of his prohibitions. It was reported that ibn Masood (may Allah be pleased with him) was  asked about the essence of Taqwa, he replied: "that Allah is obeyed and not defied, remembered and not forgotten and appreciated and not unappreciated."       
For his part Umar ibn Abdul Aziz (may Allah rest his soul in peace) said, "Taqwa is not achieved by fasting the day, or standing the night in prayer, or all that is good between that; rather Taqwa of Allah is leaving that which Allah has prohibited and fulfilling that which Allah has obligated."
 To acquire Taqwa you need to fear Allah (The Most High) and feel His Presence in every aspect of your lives. Because Man may lose sight of Allah, fail to execute His commandments and become vulnerable to sin, you should therefore be keen to observe the orders of Allah, The Most Gracious, and stay away from His prohibitions.
 Yet if Man remains self-aware of Allah's instructions and that He is watching him, he will remain in the state of Taqwa and avoid engaging in wrongdoings. On this account, Allah, The Most Sovereign, says, "Indeed, those who fear Allah - when an impulse touches them from Satan, they remember [Him] and at once they have insight." (Al Araf:201). Verily, Taqwa is a buffer deterring the servant from disobeying his Creator, The Most Exalted.
O Servants of Allah,
Another way to attain Taqwa is to fear Allah and forsake doubtful matters. Lured by worldly temptations, some people may underestimate these issues, which may eventually cause them to fall into sin. In this regard our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "One will never achieve the level of the people of Taqwa (Allah's fearing virtuous believers) until he avoids even what is not considered sinful because he is afraid of falling into the prohibited."
Taqwa is also achievable through sincere faith in Allah and true obedience to Him. Accordingly the ultimate pursuit of every Muslim both inwardly and outwardly should be geared towards reaching Allah's satisfaction. He must be truthful with people in his words and actions in compliance with what Allah says: "And the one who has brought the truth and [they who] believed in it - those are the righteous." (Azzumar:33).
Dear Muslims,
If it is deeply embedded in the heart, Taqwa will be reflected in words and actions, hence yielding many advantages. For example, Allah, The Most High, will turn a person's grief and hardship into comfort as He says, "And whosoever fears Allah and keeps his duty to Him, He will make his matter easy for him." (Attalaq:4). Likewise, He will provide a way out for the people of Taqwa when in trouble  and confer on them His abundant provision. Allah, The Most Exalted says, "And whosoever fears Allah and keeps his duty to Him, He will make a way for him to get out (from every difficulty). And He will provide him from (sources) he never could imagine." (Attalaq:2). He also says, "And if only the people of the cities had believed and feared Allah , We would have opened upon them blessings from the heaven and the earth." (Al Aaraf:96).
Taqwa is also a key to success in this life and in the Hereafter as it is mentioned by Allah, The Most Bountiful in this verse: "And fear Allah that you may succeed." (Al Baqara:189). By fearing Allah and being pious, a Muslim shall  also be secure and protected from ill outcomes as Allah, The Ever Merciful says, "And Allah will save those who feared Him by their attainment; no evil will touch them, nor will they grieve." (Azzumar:61). It is a further cause for having one's misdeeds forgiven and good deeds blessed. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "and whoever fears Allah - He will remove for him his misdeeds and make great for him his reward." (Attalaq:5).
One of the other benefits of Taqwa is the Love of Allah bestowed on the virtuous amongst His servants, who will enjoy the privilege of being placed in higher status closer to Him, as He says, "Indeed, Allah loves the righteous [who fear Him]." (Attawba:4). Truly when Allah does so, his pious servants shall earn the Divine satisfaction and be granted an abode in the Paradise as Allah, The Most High, says, "Indeed, the righteous will be among gardens and rivers, In a seat of honour near a Sovereign, Perfect in Ability." (Al Qamar:45-55).
O Allah, grant to our souls their Taqwa and purify them, for You are the Best Purifier of them. May Allah help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His words: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please bear in mind that he whoever is blessed with Taqwa will have his heart filled with felicity in this life and the Hereafter and become among the most honourable to his Lord. It was asked, "O Messenger of Allah,  who is the most honourable amongst mankind?" He (pbuh) said, "The most honourable of them is one who is the most pious of them."
Taqwa will mutually benefit the individual and the community. Fearing Allah is an impetus for every individual to fulfil his responsibilities in the perfect manner and is the true  provision. For example, the employee will be motivated to excel in his assignment and preserve the rights of his employer; the parents will be keen to provide good education for their children and the merchant will be sincere in his transactions, who will, in turn, be rewarded by seeing his wealth blessed and grown. This is commensurate with what Allah says, "And take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al Baqara:197).
 It was reported that Abdullah bin Masood (may Allah be pleased with him) said, "and no doubt, everyone among you shall remain in a good state as long as he obeys Allah."
O Believers of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah bless us with piety and purify our souls. O Allah, we turn to You in repentance, put our hope and  trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
  O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
  O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













