addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 HE Dr Hamadan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's  Chairman, opened The Saeed Saeed Al Darmaki  Mosque located in the Al Nahyan area in Abu Dhabi  city. The inauguration ceremony was attended by HE  Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court, Mr Rashid Ali al Mazrouei, the Director of the GAIAE's branch in Abu Dhabi and a number of worshippers and residents of the area.
"The inauguration of the mosque reflects the keen interest of the prudent UAE leadership in the Houses of Allah and their maintenance," Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei said, adding "it also  translates the continuous directives of the government for the mosques to undertake its mission."
On this occasion Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei praised the financial and moral support the GAIAE had received from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the president of UAE, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness  Members of the Supreme Council, The Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He revealed that dozens of mosques would open this year across UAE as part of the Mafhas Al Qatat  (Sandgrouse Nest) programme, which had received contributions from a large number of beneficiaries from the UAE. The construction of new mosques is in line with the GAIAE's strategic plan as endorsed by the Cabinet, he said. 
He further explained that the Abu Dhabi branch had since January of this year received three new mosques in the Abu Dhabi city, and was expecting six new mosques to be handed over to Awqaf next month.
Another 27 mosques are under construction in the capital and its environs. They are due to open this year. The new mosque in Al Nahyan area was built according to the Abbasid architectural design, and can accommodate about 500 worshippers. It has annexed buildings for service facilities and accommodations for the imam and the muezzin.
 
 
 
 
 













