addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Addressing Muftis from the Official Fatwa Centre, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, called for maintaining the gains achieved by the Centre and embracing all what it takes to develop and upgrade its services. Dr al Kaabi said this would be achieved by studying Islamic jurisprudence and its principles on regular basis and further consolidating this by training workshops of high academic quality.
Dr al Kaabi highlighted the special support to the GAIAE from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the president of UAE, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, The Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. He mentioned that the prudent UAE leadership had great interest in the Fatwa Centre being the reference authority for delivering Fatwas in the country.
Because of its special status, the centre has gained the confidence of the public and benefitted  from the free- of-charge means of communication. The Centre's reputation is not limited only  to the UAE, but it has also earned an international reputation through its website, he said.
Since its launch in 2008, the Centre has answered 1,200,000 queries over the phone at the toll-free number 8002422, via SMS at 2535 and the GAIAE's website at www.awqaf.gov.ae.
"These achievements are indicators of a positive assessment according to a study by the mystery shopper, and they concur with the Awqaf's strategic goals, which were approved by the Cabinet. Such a good performance should encourage us to invest more efforts and suggest more constructive proposals that are conducive to innovation and excellence," he said.
He urged Muftis to continue developing their skills by continuously studying relevant references and referring to the latest studies, Fatwas and new forms of transactions. He advised them also to follow up closely the evolution of society in all aspects of life so that they can be able to issue contemporary Fatwas that are recognisant of both the reality and the ultimate goals of Islam. This would eventually contribute to the consolidation of principles of tolerance and moderation, he added.
Dr al Kaabi also briefed Muftis of the recommendations included in the recent mystery shopper's survey, most important of which were increasing the limit of SMS characters, supporting model answers with evidences, establishing a unit of Muftis for providing Fatwas exclusively through texts messages, increasing the number of Muftis in the Centre for fatwa assignments only, and developing their communication skills.
 













