addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Al praise is to Allah for the countless blessings He has bestowed upon His Creation. I exalt Him as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues and I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah Alone, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger who said. "O people, ask Allah for certainty of faith and wellness, for, verily, after certainty of faith, no one has been given anything better than good health." May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
O Servants of Allah,  I urge you and myself to be God-conscious and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, for Allah, The Almighty, says "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab:70-71).
Dear Muslims
We should be aware of the limitless blessings of Allah which are beyond any possible listing as He says, "And if you should count the favors of Allah, you could not enumerate them. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (Annahl:18). One of the greatest bounties Allah has conferred upon his Creation is well-being, that is, the state of being sound in mind and body and having one's family safe and secure. It is also one of the reasons for man's happiness in this life, for, indeed, who has it he is greatly blessed. On this matter, our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "If anyone among you is secure in mind in his life, healthy in body and has food for the day, it is as though the whole world has been brought into his Possession."
The good health is the first thing about which people will be asked on the Day of Resurrection, as Muhammad (pbuh) said, "the first thing about which one will be questioned on the Day of Resurrection-meaning, the servant about blessings. It will be said, "did we not give you a sound, healthy body and quench your thirst with cool water."
Because of the importance of the grace of well-being, our prophet Muhammad (pbuh) invoked Allah, The Most Exalted, daily to perpetuate this blessing. It was reported by Ibn Umar (may Allah be pleased with him) that the Prophet (pbuh) used to say in the morning and the evening: "O Allah I ask for your pardon and well-being in this life and the Hereafter, and I ask for your pardon in my religious and worldly affairs, my family and my wealth. O Allah veil my weaknesses and my dismays."
 He also advised his companions to recite it. Having introduced them to Salat,  the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to teach the new Muslims this Duaa: "O Allah, forgive me, have mercy upon me, guide me, give me health and grant me sustenance." Of the beneficial Dhikrs (invocations) before sleep is to say: "O Allah, surely You have created my self, and You take it up. To You its life and its death. If You give it life, then preserve it and if You give it death, then forgive it. O Allah, indeed, I ask You for wellness."
O Servants of Allah,
To preserve the blessing of good health, Islam prescribes a number of ethics  to prevent us from falling ill. Thus it instructed us to take the following precautions: maintaining purity, general hygiene by bathing, abluting, brushing our teeth, rinsing our mouth, snuffing,  removing impurity, among others. In this regard,  our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) advised us to invest in our well-being, saying, "take (benefit from) five before (the occurrence of) five: your youth before sickness; and your wealth before poverty; and your free time before preoccupation, and your life before your death." This has the benefit of helping us obey Allah and serve our community and nation, for the best of people are the most beneficial to people.
 Dear Believers,
Health is a crown over the head of a healthy person, only sick people see it. So let us praise Allah, The Ever Providing, for the blessing of wellness and strive to preserve it. To even further appreciate  this valuable provision we need to look at the suffering of others, who are denied good health.  It was reported by Anas bin Malik that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) passed by some people afflicted by diseases and said, "Did they ever used  to invoke Allah for good health?"
 The state of well-being should be a pursuit for every believer. So when he falls sick, he should seek cure as our Master Muhammad (pbuh) instructed us to do. He said, "Make use of medical treatment, for Allah has not made a disease without appointing a remedy for it, with the exception of one disease, namely old age." Any person suffering from an illness should however remain patient and be pleased with what Allah has destined. He should also beseech Allah, The Most High, to remove his distress, believing his affliction is a trial through which he will have  some of his sins dissipated and good deeds increased. On this account, the Prophet Muhammad said, "For every misfortune, illness, anxiety, grief, or hurt that afflicts a Muslim -even the hurt caused by the pricking of a thorn - Allah will record a hasana (good deed) for him thereby or erase from him a sin."
 O Allah, we ask for Your pardon and well-being in our faith, selves and our families, You the Lord of the Worlds. We also seek Your favour to grant us success, and help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers,
 Please know that whoever is blessed with safety and good health he has attained success. Anas ibn Malik reported that a man came to the Prophet (pbuh) and said, "O Messenger of Allah, which prayer is the best? He said, "ask your Lord for pardon and security in this world and the next." He came again the next day and asked, "O Messenger of Allah, which is prayer is the best?" He told him the like of what he had said. He came again on the third day and he said to him as he had said (earlier). He also said, "if you are given pardon in this world, and you are also given that in the Hereafter, indeed, you have succeeded."
O Believers of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, grant us pardon and safety in this life and the next and bless us with piety and purify our souls. O Allah, we turn to You in repentance, put our hope and  trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
  May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
   O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
  We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













