addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The GAIAE completed the demolition work of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan's (may Allah rest his soul in peace) Waqf building block in the Khalidiya area in Abu Dhabi. The reconstruction of the 25000 sqm building that goes back to 1975 is expected to be completed by 2016. 
The GAIAE has awarded the construction tender to the KEO company and  the engineering consultancy service to Herberger Engineering out of 42 bidding companies.
HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him, donated AED 360 mn for this endowment, which helped the GAIAE to speed up the implementation of the project. The Awqaf has already completed the necessary designs that will give the Sheikh Zayed Waqf  a new structure and look.
The  new tower will sit on an area of about 2624 sqm, and consist of five basement levels for car parking, a ground floor for commercial showrooms, a mezzanine for office spaces in addition to 29 storeys. Overall, the building will comprise of 523 apartments, of which 348 are one bedroom and a reception, 59 are two bedroom and a hall and the remaining 116 apartments consist of three bedroom and a hall. Office spaces will occupy 1766 sqm; whereas, showrooms will take up 899 sqm. The Parking area will sit on an area of 440 sqm.
Based on  a study by the GAIAE, the project's cost  stood now at  about AED 613 mn, according to current market prices. When completed the late Sheikh Zayed Waqf is expected to generate an estimated proceeds of AED 45 mn, which will be devoted to charity. The project came to translate the instructions of the UAE leadership to monetise the Waqf resources and  diversify the scope of their investment portfolios. It also aims to ensure these Waqf assets  are profitable, secure, sustainable and compliant with the rulings of Islam.
The disbursement of Waqf funds is subject to the Cabinet resolution no (6) of 2010 concerning regulations of Waqf proceeds and especially article 5 on the Waqf Funds. The GAIAE takes into consideration spending priorities among different Funds as per the regulations adopted by the Awqaf's Board of Directors in coordination with the legal committee made of specialised scholars. The GAIAE also closely managers the Waqf funds and the disbursement processes related thereto.
 
 













