addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All Praise is to Allah for the countless bounties He has bestowed upon His Servants. I exalt Him as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His Great sovereignty and virtues and I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness That Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger who was sent as a mercy to the worlds. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
 O Servants of Allah,  I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, for Allah, The Almighty, says, "Then fear Allah; perhaps you will be grateful." (Al Imran:123).
Dear Muslims,
Allah, The Ever Glorious, has ordered us to be grateful of His blessings upon us when He said, "And be grateful for the favour of Allah , if it is [indeed] Him that you worship."  (Annahl:114); "So remember the favours of Allah that you might succeed." (Al Aaraf:69). He also instructed his messenger Muhammad (pbuh) saying, "But as for the favour of your Lord, report [it]." (Adduha:11). About this Umar bin Abdul Aziz, may Allah rest his soul in peace, said that by acknowledging Allah's blessings the individual is actually praising his Creator.
Please be aware that stability and prosperity are among the greatest blessings we are enjoying, and thus we should always remember them. They were highly regarded by the Prophet Ibrahim (pbuh) who supplicated to Allah saying, "My Lord, make this city [Mecca] secure and keep me and my sons away from worshiping idols." (Ibrahim:35). They were equally enjoyed by Quraysh, as Allah, The Most High, says, "Let them worship the Lord of this House, Who has fed them, [saving them] from hunger and made them safe, [saving them] from fear." (Quraysh:3-4).
 Truly, security and good living are blessings of great value that are dear to people. They have always been the cornerstones that ensure the continuity of civilisations, as Allah, The Most Provident, says, "Have we not established for them a safe sanctuary to which are brought the fruits of all things as provision from Us? But most of them do not know." (Al Qasas:57). No wonder then that the stability and the prosperity we have been enjoying in this blessed country is but the fruits of sincere justice and tranquillity.
 Dear Believers,
One of the most precious blessings we have to praise is the grace of love and harmony among us for Allah, The Most Compassionate says, "And remember the favour of Allah upon you - when you were enemies and He brought your hearts together." (Al Imran:103). Indeed amicability among individuals is a Divine grace that leads the community away from disagreement to cooperation, from differences to union, from weakness to strength and from misery to happiness. It is so precious a favour that is worth going the extra mile to defend and maintain it. Speaking of believers, Allah, The Most High, says, "And brought together their hearts. If you had spent all that is in the earth, you could not have brought their hearts together; but Allah brought them together. Indeed, He is Exalted in Might and Wise." (Al Anfal:63).
O Servants of Allah,
Allah, The Ever Providing, has blessed us with leaders who we love and who love us. We pray to Allah for them, and so do they for us. It is a highly praised rapport between the people and leadership, the kind of relation that was highlighted by the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) when he said, "the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, and those who supplicate to Allah in your favour and you supplicate to Allah in their favour." They have led the UAE to progress in challenging circumstances, and every step they have taken they are adding to the country's record of achievements and firmly establishing its civilisation. Thanks to their unrelenting efforts, the UAE has become a paradise of happiness that protects man's dignity, putting it on the top of Arab countries in the index of satisfaction and happiness.
 The UAE leaders have spared no effort to ensure happiness for people. They have done this by fostering the values of solidarity, compassion and love between the leadership and the people. They have also provided the best services that would benefit people and bring happiness to their hearts. This way they have obtained Allah's love. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "the most beloved of people to Allah are those who are most beneficial to others, and the best deeds in the sight of Allah is the joy that you bring to a Muslim."
Dear Believers,
 As our beloved country has strongly made its way up to the level of advanced countries and topped its Arab counterparts in prosperity and welfare, stability and respect of human dignity, we all have to be trustworthy and show gratitude in return. Likewise, we have to strengthen the confidence and loyalty to this generous nation and stand firmly by our leaders, keeping ourselves away from disparate loyalties and warring parties. Furthermore,  we have to genuinely identify with the country, love it and care for it.
 This requires of everyone to take part in building the nation and contribute as much as he can in order to preserve its gains and maintain its wealth and potentials. So because the homeland is the link relating the lives of parents and foreparents, it is such a responsibility that we all have to shoulder and be aware that we will be asked about it in the Hereafter. Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Allah will hold accountable everyone with regard to what he was entrusted, whether he preserved it or lost it.
 O Allah, we seek your favour to sustain the blessings of stability and tranquillity and grant us success to the best interest of the homeland and people. May Allah help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the only God who has no partner, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
 One of ways of acknowledging Allah's blessings is to nurture in our children's heart the love for their country and a keen attachment to their identity. By the same token, we need to educate them on dedicating themselves to preserving the gains and wealth of this nation and sincerely discharging their responsibilities. This can be achieved by them being keen to pursuing the path of knowledge, being proficient in fulfilling their job duties and engaging in fruitful cooperation among themselves, one that benefits their families and the community at large. In all cases, they should remain grateful for all the good actions done in their favour, as Allah, The Ever Providing, says, "Is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Arrahman:60).
O Believers of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, grant us pardon and safety in this life and the next and bless us with piety and purify our souls. O Allah, we turn to You in repentance, put our hope and  trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













