addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All Praise is to Allah for the countless bounties He has bestowed upon His Servants. I exalt Him as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His Great sovereignty and virtues and I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness That Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger who was sent as a mercy to the worlds. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
O Servants of Allah,  I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, for Allah, The Almighty, says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah as He should be feared and do not die except as Muslims [in submission to Him]." (Al Imran:102).
 Dear Believers,
Allah, The most Gracious is He, says, "And the servants of the Most Merciful are those who walk upon the earth easily, and when the ignorant address them [harshly], they say [words of] peace, And those who spend [part of] the night to their Lord prostrating and standing [in prayer]. And those who say, "Our Lord, avert from us the punishment of Hell. Indeed, its punishment is ever adhering; Indeed, it is evil as a settlement and residence." (Al Furqan:63-66).
 Truly, Allah, The Most Exalted, has described to us His servants adhering to morality as those who walk placidly but with dignity. They are highly respected for their humbleness, which is seen as one of the greatest qualities a person should have.
 Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said in this regard, "Allah revealed to me that we should be humble amongst ourselves and none should show pride upon the others." Modesty indeed  elevates one's rank as our Prophet said, "and no one humbles himself before Allah but Allah will raise him (in status)."
 Also one of  the good characteristics of Allah's faithful servants is their attitude in turning away from the ignorant who treated them wrongly. Allah, The Most High, says, "and when the ignorant address them [harshly], they say [words of] peace,"(Al Furqan:63). Thus Muhammad (pbuh) used to behave. He forgave those who had badly treated him, and chose to be more lenient when they severely harmed him. No wonder then that forgiveness is highly regarded by Allah, The Most Compassionate, as our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said addressing Ashaj Abdul Qais "you possess two qualities that Allah loves. These are clemency and tolerance."
 Dear Muslims
 Truly the believers of Allah are always looking forward to worshipping Him, and in supplicating to Him they aspire for true solace and reassurance. For His sake they leave the comfort of their cozy bed and stand in prayer. With their tongue moist with the remembrance of Allah, The Majestic is He, and their heart is content, they observe Tahajjud (the night vigil) while many are fast asleep. They are mindful of what others are oblivious to, and of whom  Allah says, "And those who spend [part of] the night to their Lord prostrating and standing [in prayer]." (Al Furqan:64).
 O blessed are those who stand at night to pray in fear of Allah and hope to be deemed amongst His servants, ones  that are obedient to and confident in Him Alone. Indeed they are those who stand in awe of Allah and  are fearful of His punishment as The Almighty says, "And those who say, "Our Lord, avert from us the punishment of Hell. Indeed, its punishment is ever adhering; Indeed, it is evil as a settlement and residence." (Al Furqan:65-66).
 Dear Muslims,
 Servants of Allah should be moderate in their spending, that is, they should neither be wasteful nor miser. To this effect, Allah, The All Wise, says, "And [they are] those who, when they spend, do so not excessively or sparingly but are ever, between that, [justly] moderate." (Al Furqan:67). Some commentators explained that this Quranic verse defines a sensible spender as someone who does not squander his resources, nor he spends too little, so far as to fail short in meeting  the needs of his dependents.
 O blessed are those who primarily seek Allah's satisfaction, and are  profoundly sincere  to  their Creator. In their pursuit, they do not in the slightest dare to transgress the sanctity of human beings, or let themselves fall in sin. Likewise,  they  stay completely away from prohibitions by constantly controlling their temper, impulses and desires. And if  they ever fell in sin, they would rush to ask Allah for repentance. Truly Allah will reward them by replacing their wrongdoings with good deeds.
 Allah, The Most Gracious, says, "And those who do not invoke with Allah another deity or kill the soul which Allah has forbidden [to be killed], except by right, and do not commit unlawful sexual intercourse. And whoever should do that will meet a penalty. Multiplied for him is the punishment on the Day of Resurrection, and he will abide therein humiliated - Except for those who repent, believe and do righteous work. For them Allah will replace their evil deeds with good. And ever is Allah Forgiving and Merciful. And he who repents and does righteousness does indeed turn to Allah with [accepted] repentance." (Al Furqan:68-71).
 O Believers, all of you, turn to Allah so that you may prosper.
 Dear Muslims,
 Another quality that distinguishes Allah's servants is giving truthful testimony, for Allah, The Most Exalted says, "And [they are] those who do not testify to falsehood." (Al Furqan:72). Giving a false testimony is a pure act of lying and is one of the grave sins because of the consequent loss of rights that it causes. So servants of Allah should honour themselves by avoiding  mingling or sitting  with people with idle inclinations or those engaged in lies and  fabrication, for Allah, The Almighty says, "And [they are] those who do not testify to falsehood, and when they pass near ill speech, they pass by with dignity." (Al Furqan:72).
 O Allah, we seek Your grace to make us among Your servants and help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no partners, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers,
 Some more of the distinctive qualities of Allah's servants is their willingness to respond as they should to His orders and their ability to benefit from what they hear and learn of Allah's words. Thus if they hear the Holy Quran recited, their hearts throb with fear, and their eyes shed tears. Ultimately, all of their senses would give in to this strong feeling, which would lead them to grow  stronger in faith. Allah, The Most Exalted, says, "And those who, when reminded of the verses of their Lord, do not fall upon them deaf and blind." (Al Furqan:73).
  O Believers of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al-Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 May Allah grant us Your favour and place us among Your virtuous servants in this life and on the Day of Reckoning. O Allah, make us amongst the companions of the Right and confer upon us an abode in the Paradise. O Allah, we turn to You in repentance, put our hope and  trust in You to guide us to do righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win paradise and deliverance from the Fire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Hellfire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
  O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
  O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
  O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
  We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
  O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember You. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













