addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE has recently organised the second workshop for its branches' directors in Umm Al Quwain. The meeting was chaired by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, and was also attended by Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, Mr Hamad Yusuf Mualla, the GAIAE's Executive Director for Support Services and Mr Khaled Mohammed al Neyadi, the Executive Director for Endowment affairs.
Dr al Kaabi opened the meeting by extending his thanks to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh  Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness the Members of the Supreme Council, and General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, for their invaluable support to the Awqaf Authority.
The workshop came to  follow up the points raised during a similar meeting held early this year in Al Ain.
The gathering in Umm Al Quwain highlighted the role of the Quran memorisation centres, which play a great role in the education of  the youth in accordance to the teachings of Islam.  For their special role within the community, they have always received  substantial financial and moral support from the UAE leadership. The meeting also examined issues related to Imams' accommodations in some northern emirates and reviewed the recommendations put forward by the GAIAE's administration in this regard.
Furthermore, the workshop discussed the necessity to regularly update the data and information about mosques and systematically  maintain the electronic database, which is run and managed by the Mosques' Department. By the same token they advised on the necessity to take care of the mosques located on the outside roads connecting various emirates and define those which need an overhaul refurbishment, maintenance and extra cleanliness follow up.
The meeting wrapped up with  a review of the results of the exams the local Waqf staff had sat for and which would determine their promotion to general Waqf. These exams will also decide their salary increase.
 













