addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE's branch in Fujairah opened six new mosques this year in various areas of the Emirate, while  13 more are under construction.
According to Mr Rashid Obeid al Obeid, the director of the GAIAE's  branch in Fujairah, engineering plans for 13 mosques are under way, while construction work for three of them will kick off within three months.
One mosque opened in the Sakamkam area, 1 km away from the city centre, with a capacity of about 800 worshippers, and two in the Al Taiba area, accommodating 1000 worshipers overall.  Three mosques had already been opened in Dibba Al Rafa, Rul Dibba, and Al Fasil providing space for 300, 200 and 1000 worshipers respectively.
Among the new places of worship will be three mosques, one in the area of Dibba Al Ridda with a capacity of 800 worshippers and is expected to open by the year's end, and two in the Fujairah city and the Siji area, located 60 kms from Fujairah, accommodating 1000 and 250 worshipers respectively. Both mosques will open next month.
In Seeh Al Saram in Dibba Al Fujairah, the construction work for a mosque, with a capacity of  200 worshipers,  is due to be finished in May. In Dibba Al Rafa, a completed mosque that can accommodate more than 800 worshipers is in the pipeline for delivery at  the end of this year, while another, with a capacity of 250 worshipers,  is under construction in Masafi. It is expected to open next June.
In the areas of Shariya and Al Hayl two mosques, with a capacity of 800 worshipers each,  are being built. The former is expected to be completed by the year's end while the latter in March next year. In the Al Gharfa area in the city centre, a congregational mosque (Masjid Jamia), accommodating 1500 worshipers, is under construction and will be handed over by the end of the year. In the areas of Dibba Al Ras and Marbah two new mosques with a respective capacity of 600 and 400 worshipers are under way. Both of them will be ready for opening in April, 2013.
"There are many more projects which we have prepared their master plans. They are available for benefactors who wish to contribute to charitable work," Mr Al Obeid said. Among these projects are mosques in the following areas: Al Hayl, the New Al Ghuzaimri, Dibba Al Rafa, Al Muhtariqa, Al Rheeb, Sharm, Al Jareef, Al Rafaa, estimated to cost more than AED 4,5 mn, and Qidfaa. 
Some other plans are mosques in the areas of Al Rafaa and Al Muhtariqa at a cost of AED 800,000 and can accommodate up to 200 worshipers. A mosque of similar size and cost will also  be built in Al Taween area . There is also a project  in  Wadi Al Abadla with a capacity of 400 worshipers and at a cost of  AED 1,2 mn.
Mr Al Obeid mentioned that there were three mosques in the queue to start out with during the next three months, including a mosque in Al Ruhaib and two in Al Shiriya. He also stressed the fact that some old mosques in the Emirate require replacement and refurbishment like the Al Khansaa Mosque in the Ahfarah area, the Jaafar ibn Abdul Muttalib Mosque in Al Farfar, the Al Basheer ibn Al Baraa Mosque  in Maduk, the Abdullah  ibn Masood Mosque in Al Gharfa , the Utba ibn Ghazwan Mosque in Al Siji, the Rafea ibn Yazid Mosque in Habhab and the Abu Musa Al Ashaari Mosque in Dibba Sambreed.
On this occasion, he urged philanthropists to donate for the construction of mosques in Fujairah because many areas need more places of worship following the increasing population in the last five years.
 













