addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All Praise is to Allah for the countless bounties He has bestowed upon His Servants. I exalt Him as is befitting to His Glorious presence and His Great sovereignty and virtues and I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness That Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger who was sent as a mercy to the worlds. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
 As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
 Dear Muslims,
Human beings are born in this world with a natural tendency to establish interpersonal relations. It is a divinely induced disposition that is highlighted by Allah, the Most Exalted, when He says, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another." (Al Hujurat:13). Interaction amongst people has even further evolved thanks to communication technology, which has made it possible for people to shorten distances, use time smartly, maximise achievements, and minimise hardship and cost. This dynamic evolution in human communication demonstrates how such a divine blessing has allowed people from far and wide to interact amongst themselves much easily and more effectively.
He The Almighty says, "And whatever you have of favour - it is from Allah." (Annahl:53). So in return for His abundant provision we  have to praise Allah for it and remain grateful to Him. He, The Most Exalted, says, "If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favour]." (Ibrahim:7). We have also to use Allah's bounties only for good causes and never exploit them to harm others. 
Dear Believers,
To fairly deal with the new communication technologies, there need be rules and etiquette for everyone to abide by, mostly a good intention for employing them appropriately and exclusively for performing good work and meeting permissible needs. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "actions are but by intentions." O congratulations to those who are sincere in faith and are keen to avoid misusing technology because they know this is a harmful act and is contrary to their religion. They also know that it is a despicable act and is synonymous to what Allah The Almighty has described as a false charge: "And those who harm believing men and believing women for [something] other than what they have earned have certainly born upon themselves a slander and manifest sin." (Al Ahzab:58).
O Believers, beware that you will do harm to other people if you spot their secrets and flaws or if you spread rumours through websites, blogs, mobile phones or other means of technology. Whoever dares to do this has indeed disrespected codes of morality and good manners, as evidenced by our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) when he said "O community of people, who believed by their tongue, and belief did not enter their hearts, do not back-bite Muslims, and do not search for their faults, for if anyone searches for their faults, Allah will search for his fault, and if Allah searches for the fault of anyone, He disgraces him in his house."
 It is a dangerous type of behaviour because it has far-reaching consequences. It can lead, but not limited to, to the dislocation of stable families, the break of marriages and tarnishing the reputation of many innocent people.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that exploiting the new technologies to produce and diffuse rumours amongst members of the community is morally reprehensible. It does not only lead to backbiting behaviour, but it also sever bonds with relatives and friends. On this matter, Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Should I inform you of the vilest amongst you? They are the gossipmongers, the destroyers of relations between loved ones and the seekers of hardship to befall innocent people."
 Therefore, please be cautious not to contribute to the diffusion of rumours because any producer of unconfirmed statements will face loss and regret, for Allah the Most Gracious, says, "O you who have believed, if there comes to you a disobedient one with information, investigate, lest you harm a people out of ignorance and become, over what you have done, regretful." (Al Hujurat:6).
 Truly it is a sorrowful fate for those who report news and information without fully investigating their truthfulness, and thus go as far as spreading gossips and flawed reports through emails. This relates to what our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Falsely attributing something to me is not like falsely attributing something to anyone else. Let the one who knowingly lies about me take a seat in Hellfire."
 That is said, Muslims have to avoid attributing things to the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) by seeking the advice of scholars and specialists to ensure the accuracy of the information they receive and post.
Dear Believers, 
To properly handle modern technology we need also to guard ourselves against destructive ideas, false information and corrupt fantasies that are circulated by some websites. They are so because they entirely contradict with our religion, morality, values and norms, and most likely will affect the stability of communities and sow corruption. Allah The Almighty says, "And of the people is he whose speech pleases you in worldly life, and he calls Allah to witness as to what is in his heart, yet he is the fiercest of opponents. And when he goes away, he strives throughout the land to cause corruption therein and destroy crops and animals. And Allah does not like corruption." (Al Baqara:204-205).
One way to achieve this is to involve ourselves in monitoring our children's use of the new electronic means of communication and guiding them to the most beneficial ways of their utilisation.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to make us among Your servants who perform the good deeds and help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no partners, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 Dear Muslims,
 Allah, The Most Providing, has blessed this country with the grace of union, which has led to the unification of the armed forces, an event that we are commemorating these days. On this occasion, we would like to pay tribute to our armed forces for being the infallible shield for this nation. With a formidable self-denial,  they are sacrificing themselves to defend the country's integrity and ensure the security of its gains and wealth.
Thanks to Allah The Almighty and thanks to their efforts we can enjoy safety, stability, union and well-being. In recognition of their invaluable contributions, we would also like to seize this opportunity to beseech Allah to protect them and help them succeed in what satisfies Him. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "(There) are two eyes that the Fire will never touch, the eye that wept from fear of Allah and the eye that stood guard in the night in Allah's path."
O Believers of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56). The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
 O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 O Allah, send upon us helpful, wholesome and healthy rain. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us amongst the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













