addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All Praise is to Allah, The Omniscent, and The Most Holy. Blessed is the name of our Lord, the Owner of Majesty and Honour. I praise Him for His countless bounties and favours. And I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger, the blessed in his words, deeds and supplications. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who will follow on their footsteps until the Last Day.
 As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, as He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah , through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa:1).
Dear Believers,
Allah's blessing (Baraka) is sought by people for themselves, their progeny and wealth as evidenced by the believers' supplication: "And say, 'My Lord, let me land at a blessed landing place, and You are the best to accommodate [us].'" (Al Muaminun:29).
 When someone is married, people would wish him good blessings in the same way as the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to say, "May Allah bless you, surround you with blessings, and bring you both together in virtue and prosperity. And when he gets a new baby, people would congratulate him saying, "may you be grateful to the One who has given, may you be blessed in what you have been given, may he reach maturity and right guidance, and may you be treated well by him."
 Beacause Allah, the Most Bountiful, is indispensable for the Creation, Muslims are advised to always ask Him for abundant provision. They can do this by supplicating to Him saying, "O Allah! Bless us in what You have provided us." Quoting the Prophet Ayub (Job) Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "O Lord, but I cannot dispense with your Blessing."
 The blessing therefore has an inherent meaning of religious content. It is an evidence of Allah's favour upon His Creation for a lasting and abudndant provision. For this he blessed the earth saying, "And He placed on the earth firmly set mountains over its surface, and He blessed it and determined therein its [creatures'] sustenance in four days without distinction - for [the information] of those who ask." (Fussilat:10).
 Anyone who receives the privilege of the divine blessing shall see his livelihood prosper and his offspring protected, his body and soul guarded and his life shine with happiness and success. Any married couple graced with Allah's blessinig shall also live in content and harmony.
 Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) used to pray for those he loved to be given the good divine providence in fate, progeny and wealth. This was the case when he invoked for Anas (may Allah be pleased with him) saying, "O Allah, give him (i.e. Anas) property and children and bless him." Anas eventually said, "thus I am one of the richest among the Ansar and more than 120 of my offspring...had already been buried."
 O Believers,
 Please know that the divine blessing comes to reward those who behave in accordance to  Allah's instructions. Allah says, "And if only the people of the cities had believed and feared Allah , We would have opened upon them blessings from the heaven and the earth" (Al Aaraf:96). Thus, anyone who believes in Allah, The All Knowing, and duly obeys Him, he will enjoy good rapport with people, a stable household, well-behaved children, a good wife and a gratifying livelihood. On this account, Allah The Almighty says, "Whoever does righteousness, whether male or female, while he is a believer - We will surely cause him to live a good life, and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according to the best of what they used to do." (Annahl:97).
 The blessing is also for the members of the family who get together for meals. In their harmonious gatherings they invoke Allah's name in the beginning and in the end. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said in this regard, "Gather together (to eat) and remember the name of Allah and it will have baraka (be blessed for you)."
 Furthemore, the blessing of Allah will crown the efforts of those who shun laziness and get up early for work. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "O Allah, bless my people in the early part of the day (morning)." The Prophet's companions (may Allah be pleased with them) had grasped the true value of time. One of them was a merchant, and he used to send off his merchandise at the beginning of the day. So his trade grew and his wealth increased.
 Dear Muslims,
 Last but not least, the blessing will equally recompense a merchant if he is honest in his business and tolerant with people when need be. He will enjoy good reputation and his wealth will flourish. On this matter, Muhammad (pbuh) said, "The seller and the buyer have a right to annul the transaction as long as they do not separate. If they speak the truth and clarify everything then there will be blessing in their deal, but if they lie and conceal then blessing will be taken away from their deal."
 Yet the divine blessing does not necessarily mean more money. There are many people who are pleased with the so little that Allah has offered them. But they live happily. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Indeed Allah the Almighty tests his servant of what He has given him. If he is happy with what Allah has given him, He will bless his lot in life and cause it to prosper. Those who are not satisfied with what Allah has given them, they will not receive Allah's blessing."
 May Allah let us be amongst Your servants who are self-content with Your provision, bless what You have prescribed for us and guide our progeny on the right path. Ameen.
 O Allah, help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: " O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no partners, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
  Dear Muslims,
 So fear Allah as is befitting to Him and be aware of His presence whether when you are in public or when you are by yourselves. Please also know that observing ties of kinship and good manners will yield substantial livelihood, and bring blessings for one's life and time. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Whoever would like his provision to be increased and his lifespan extended, let him uphold his ties of kinship."
 From this perspective, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments has launched a Waqf programme under the motto: "together to honour ties of kinship." Through this intitiative the Awqaf is keen to keep the bonds among the members of our community solid and streghten those of our family in the future. It also aim at highlighting our Islamic ethics and the foundations of our faith. Therefore you all are invited to donate to this project for it is a continuous charity. It will not only benefit you in your life and after, but it will also bring blessings for your children and draw you closer to Your Creator.
 O congratulations to those who rush to honour ties of kinship and instill this principle in the hearts of their childeren. Truly those have won the love of Allah.
 Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
 The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
  O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
 O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
  O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
  May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
  O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
  O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
  O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













