addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE's board of directors held it regular meeting to look into the UAE performance strategy and the achievements of the Awqaf's branches across all of the Emirates.
In the meeting presided over by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's Chairman, the board approved the Waqf final statement and the building of a mosque in the Al Shawamekh area in the framework of the Mafhas al Qatat  programme. It also decided to appoint an external auditor and build annexes to mosques in northern emirates for Imams and Muezzins.
Dr al Mazrouei congratulated everyone on awarding the GAIAE the Sheikh Khalifa Government Excellence Programme, 2011, under the category of government entities that achieved highest results.
He said, "on behalf of the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, I would like to take this occasion  to extend my sincere appreciation and loyalty to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces."
He also said, "the Awqaf has indeed achieved well and enhanced its performance considerably. This has been reflected in its innovative initiatives, strategic plans and its programmes of excellence. We all therefore  have the great pleasure of dedicating this award to our UAE prudent leadership for its relentless support to the Awqaf and its keen interest in its success.
"Thanks to the support of HH Sheikh Khalifa our mosques have become a beacon of guidance and civilisation. They stand out in every aspect, from their cleanliness, furniture, architecture, to preaching lectures they host. They have also contributed to the promotion of the religious awareness based on the noble teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges.
"We are also grateful to our leadership for supporting the Holy Quran memorisation centres. These learning institutions have become a platform for graduating generations of distinguished memorisers, who are willing to contribute to their nation. The concept of a central collective Fatwa reference authority has also thrived under the Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre. It provides the best Fatwa services through well-qualified Muftis who use the latest telecommunication technologies to interact with the public. Muftis also adopt a moderate approach to jurisprudence based on principles of leniency and easiness."
Dr al Mazrouei explained that these outstanding achievements were a bounty from The Almighty Allah and a result of the support of the UAE leaders to the GAIAE. Finally he acknowledged the efforts of all members of staff and their spirit of teamwork.
 
 
 













