addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















The GAIAE employs the latest technologies for communicating with the public and adopts a collective approach to Fatwa. It has a team of about forty Muftis at the UAE Official Fatwa Centre to issue religious opinions based on principles of moderation and easiness. Though this concept, the GAIAE aims to supervise  Fatwa issuance and avoid its connection with certain people or views.
The GAIAE's director general, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, said that there was a plan to further develop the Fatwa Centre and increase the number of Muftis to up to 100 in the near future.
Dr al Kaabi also said that Etisalat Company had supplied the Avaya smart system for communications solutions, which helped the GAIAE to handle hundreds of calls daily. It is worth mentioning that the Awqaf is the only Islamic authority that uses Avaya around the world.
Asked about how the system works, Dr al Kaabi explained that when someone calls on the free toll number 8002422 the answer machine offers the caller three language options: Arabic, English and Urdu. Then the machine suggests the query areas available for the questioner to choose from. These are worship, transactions, family issues, women issues and general Fatwas.
On the measures taken if someone calls again for a similar question, Dr al Kaabi said that the Avaya system is linked to sophisticated screens that display information about the questioner and a history of the calls and questions he made. Thus if someone inquired about a marriage issue, and he called later to make sure whether the answer was consistent, the screen would show his information as well as the answer he got in the first call. The Mufti can explain to the questioner that his query has been answered before, and give the answer stored in the system.
The system can also transfer calls to other Muftis when some questions need more explanation. Moreover it can engage more than one Mufti to answer a question.
 However, if a query requires thorough consultation from other colleagues, the caller will be put on hold or will be contacted later.
The system is fitted with a control panel screen, updated every 18 minutes and accessed by the Centre's general inspector. It displays information on how many calls received and how many answered by each Mufti. It also registers the time when Muftis sign in for duty and when they sign out, including their work shift schedule. Furthermore it shows how much time it takes a Mufti to answer a question and how many callers who have not got an answer.
The system has contributed to establish a large database of Fatwas, which in turn help draw the preaching plan and suggest ideas for the Friday sermons.
On another note, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that a special committee at the GAIAE evaluates the performance of Muftis annually.
On the occasion, he took the opportunity to extend his appreciation for the invaluable support to the GAIAE from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He also thanked all Muftis for their great attitude to favour serving the public at the expense of their vacations and rest time.
 













