addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE has recently been awarded three international certificates of quality excellence: ISO 9001:2088, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007. They came to endorse the organisation's management systems in areas of quality, environment, occupational health and safety. The certificates were handed over by Dr Husam al Qurahi at a ceremony at the GAIAE's headquarter in Abu Dhabi.
It was attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's Director General, Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court, and executive directors as well as heads of departments and media representatives.
The ceremony opens with recitation of verses from the Holy Quran by Zayed al Jabri, a Quran memorisation centre student.
Dr al Mazrouei gave a speech in which he extended his gratitude and loyalty to HH Sheikh Khlaifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He dedicated this remarkable achievement to the UAE leadership and to the GAIAE. He said that it is a blessing from Allah the most High and a result of a continuous support from the prudent UAE leaders. He also stressed that the Awqaf would continue upgrading its services in line with its vision as a UAE's leading institution promoting social awareness and progress according to the tolerant teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges. 
He mentioned that the Authority had set a system of policies and regulations reinforced by many services and initiatives that both satisfy customers and are compliant with ISO 9001:2008.
He explained that the Awqaf does not only prepare clear objectives and performance indexes, but it also reviews them periodically with the aim of further developing the organisational and staff competencies. "In doing this, the Awqaf would like to offer the best quality services and keep up with the best practices," he said.
As for the environment management, the GAIAE has promoted environmental awareness as per the Islamic teachings amongst staff, the GAIAE's clients and suppliers and people from all walks of life. Through its various activities, it aims to improve the environmental performance and the occupational health and safety procedures in all of the Authority's operations.
Accordingly the GAIAE provides the necessary training and work together with all parties to use energy rationally, recycle materials, reduce accidents and prevent risks following the procedures and the Approach of Excellence in force. This  helps it observe sustainability in implementing tasks in accordance to ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001 and promoting its policies in this regard amongst staff.
The GAIAE is currently considering other international quality standards of risk management and corporate social responsibility of ISO 31000 and ISO 26000.
On a different note, Dr al Mazrouei congratulated Dr al Kaabi for leading the excellence efforts at the GAIAE, the executive directors and the heads of departments as well as all members of staff.
He also thanked the Strategic Planning and Process Evaluation Office for its commendable efforts and TUV for its evaluation of the GAIAE' compliance with the quality standards.
For his part, Dr al Qurahi said that the TUV's regional office had been in contact with the Awqaf for the last few months and witnessed its achievements. About this he said, " usually our company does not grant the ISO certificates to religious or political bodies. But what we have seen of the social, cultural and administrative mission undertaken by the Awqaf, plus its practices compliant with the quality management standards has let us to grant it ISOcertificates. This is the first time our company award a religious authority around the world."
 
 
 













