addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE has recently held its annual meeting with Haj operators at the Police Officers' Club here in Abu Dhabi. The meeting was presided over by Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the head of the official Haj delegation, in the presence of Dr Ibrahim al Qadi, representing the ministry of health.
The attendees discussed several issues with the aim of developing Haj campaign management and ensuring pilgrims' rights and comfort.
On this occasion, Mr al Mazrouei praised the unlimited support to the official Haj delegation from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He stressed that the Awqaf is very keen to continuously improve the management of Haj and Umra campaigns and further upgrade these services in line with the strategic plan approved by the Cabinet.
Mr al Mazrouei also highlighted the great improvement of the quality of services offered by the official Haj delegation. This has been clearly seen in the fewer complaints by pilgrims and their satisfaction with the services offered to them, he said.
To consolidate the achievements made, he asked the Haj operators to act upon any shortcomings that were reported in recent years. He also urged them to increase efforts to attain the goals that would satisfy the prudent UAE leadership and meet the expectations of pilgrims.
After deliberations, Mr al Mazrouei drew the attention of the participants to the importance of unifying the price of single campaigns according to the services they provide. He also urge them to selectively choose the carrier whether by land or by air and make sure of the departure and arrival times.
On a related note, he asked them to provide the necessary arrangements to testify lease contracts in Mecca, Medina and other holy sites, and provide care for pilgrims with special needs or those who suffer from chronic conditions.
To streamline the process of Haj registration, Mr al Mazrouei said that information on administrative staff, pilgrims, accommodations, flights, and pilgrims' contracts will be stored electronically through a system for this purpose on the GAIAE's website.
Typists accredited by each Haj operator will enter data, while the GAIAE will soon provide them with training.













