addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, The First, The Last, The All Encompassing, The Ever Providing,  The Most Generous. I praise him as is befitting to His Sovereignty, Who has caused everything. He Whose Creation turns  to Him for repentance.
 I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger who supplicated to Allah for repentance. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
 As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, as He says, " O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab:70-71).
 O Believers,
The Surat Attakathur (the rivalry in world increase) provides guidance for people in many aspects of their lives whether to do with their faith, worship, behaviour and transactions. It says, "Competition in [worldly] increase diverts you until you visit the graveyards. No! You are going to know. Then no! You are going to know. No! If you only knew with knowledge of certainty... You will surely see the Hellfire. Then you will surely see it with the eye of certainty. Then you will surely be asked that Day about pleasure." (Attakathur).
 It describes the situation of people taking on a rivalry with each other for gaining worldly acquisitions. It says that in this heated pursuit to pile up wealth they lose sight of the Hereafter and emerge thoughtless of worshipping Allah.   Thus they remain until they died and buried, as Allah The Almighty says, "Competition in [worldly] increase diverts you until you visit the graveyards."
 In another verse, The Almighty Allah warns those who succumb to the love of money that this will divert them from obedience to Allah and His remembrance.  The Almighty Allah says, "O you who have believed, let not your wealth and your children divert you from remembrance of Allah. And whoever does that - then those are the losers." (Al Munafiqun:9).
 On this matter, our Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) advised us on how to deal with money  when he addressed those who brag and boast about their acquisitions, saying: "The son of Adam says, "My property, my property!" But, is there anything for you from your wealth except that which you gave in charity and advanced (to Allah for yourself), or consumed and finished, or put on (or donned) and wore off?"
 He also warns us against vying with one another about worldly material benefits, saying, "For, by Allah, I do not fear poverty overtaking you, but I fear for you that the world will be spread out for you as it was for those before you and you will contend with each other over it as they did and you will be ruined as they were ruined."
 As much as he advised us not to compete with each other in purely worldly pursuits, he, however, urged us to do so in doing good deeds that will benefit us in the next life. He said, "Three things follow the deceased person, and  two of them return while one remains with him. His family, his wealth and his deeds follow him. His family and his wealth return while his deeds remain behind."
On the same account, Bishr ibn al Harith (may Allah rest his soul in peace) said that Man has three sorrows in regard to his wealth, either to take it all, to leave it all or be questioned about it all.
 Dear Muslims,
 Surat Attakathur deals with the issue of faith in Allah, The Most Exalted as it says, "No! If you only knew with knowledge of certainty... You will surely see the Hellfire." The purpose is to bring the attention of heedless people to what is in stock for them on the Day of Reckoning, from the resurrection, the gathering to the final Judgment .
 Faith in Allah, as it is described, means the firm belief in His attributes and His Unlimited Ability to Perfectly arrange every matter. It is thus a key for Man to accept His Creator's verdict and guide him to attain the highest levels of devotion. Abdullah ibn Masood said, "Patience is half of faith, and certainty is faith in its entirety."
 If certainty fills one' s heart, it will throb with life for fear and love of Allah. In every beat a believer will express his gratitude to his Creator and shakes off any bits of doubt. Our Guide Muhamamd (pbuh) said, "The best of deeds to Allah is faith in Him without doubt."
 Dear Believers,
 It is therefore natural that the relationship between the servant and his Creator draws on an absolute trust. On this account, our Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) said, "An Israeli man asked another Israeli to lend him one thousand Dinars. The second man required witnesses. The former replied, 'Allah is sufficient as a witness.' The second said, 'I want a surety.' The former replied, 'Allah is sufficient as a surety.' The second said, 'You are right,' and lent him the money for a certain period.
 "When the repayment date was due, the debtor went across the sea in search for a conveyance so that he might reach in time, but he could not find any. So, he took a piece of wood and made a hole in it, inserted in it one thousand Dinars and a letter to the lender and then closed (i.e. sealed) the hole tightly. He took the piece of wood to the sea...
 "One day the lender came out of his house to see whether a ship had arrived bringing his money, and all of a sudden he saw the piece of wood in which his money had been deposited. He took it home to use for fire. When he sawed it, he found his money and the letter inside it."
 This example should invite us all to think about the trust of this man in his Creator as The Almighty Allah made the sea waves carry the money to its owner. May Allah grant us the solid trust in You, fill our hearts with Your love and do not to divert us from Your remembrance.
  O Allah, help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: " O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no partners, and I bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, I urge you and myself to fear Allah in secret and in public.
 Dear Muslims,
 Surat Attakathur concludes with calling us to preserve the blessings of Allah by appreciating their value and rationally dealing with them.  It says, "Then you will surely be asked that Day about pleasure." As such we are responsible before Allah The Most High over the comforts of life He has blessed us with.
 It was reported that Allah's Messenger (pbuh) went out one day or one night and there he found Abu Bakr and Umar also. He said, "what has brought you out of your houses at this hour? They said, " Allah's Messenger, it is hunger. On this he said, "by Him in Whose Hand is my life, what has brought you out has brought me out too; get up. They got up along with him, and all of them came to the house of an Ansari... He brought them a bunch of ripe dates, dry dates and fresh dates... He slaughtered a sheep for them and after they had eaten of it and of the bunch and drank, and when they had taken their fill and had been fully satisfied with the drink, Allah's Messenger (pbuh) said to Abu Bakr and Umar, "By Him and in Whose Hand is my life, you will certainly be questioned about this bounty on the Day of Judgment. Hunger brought you out of your house, then you did not return until this bounty came to you."
 Dear Muslims
Let us ponder upon what Allah has given us and praise Him as is befitting to him for the invaluable favours of children, money, knowledge and wisdom, stability and prosperity. For this we should always remain grateful to Him as it is a reason for perpetuating his generous provision to us all.
Dear Muslims,
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to sustain Your blessings on us, and do not deny us your generous provision. O Allah, guide us to always remain grateful to You, Ameen.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













