addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE signed a contract to build a mosque in the military area  of Al Nahda in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
The new mosque is part of the Awqaf's strategic plan approved by the Cabinet and aims to meet  the needs of the population in the newly developed areas.
On this occasion Dr al Kaabi mentioned that building mosques receives great interest from HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
The mosque will feature superb Andalusian architectural elements and can accommodate about 650 worshippers. It will be handed over by the second quarter of 2013.
The project is funded by the Awqaf led programme of Mafhas al Qatah, an initiative that increasingly attracts many donors from the UAE community, Dr al Kaabi said.
This fund raising campaign seeks to enlarge the participation of both the government and individuals in building and taking care of mosques. It draws on the Hadith saying, "If anyone builds a mosque for the sake of Allah, even if the section he builds is no bigger than the nesting place of the sandgrouse, then Allah will build him a home in the Paradise."
The mafhas (the nest) is a size of a fist pit that the sandgrouse digs on the ground to lay eggs. The Hadith used this metaphor to highlight the importance of contributing to mosques even with the smallest little amount. Interpreters said that people can donate together to build a mosque, the share of each person amounts to the market value equalling the size of that nest.
A study has been done and the GAIAE calculated the price of one coupon at AED 200 on the basis of the market rate of 8000 dirhams per sqm, equivalent to an area of 40 sandgouse nests. The area of a nest is estimated at about 250 sq. cm.. Thus if a Muslim donates AED 200, the cost of one nest, he will get the reward of building a mosque.
Many mosques have been built through the proceeds of this programme.
 













