addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah,  The Knower of the unseen, The Expeller of pain. He Who conceals defects. I pay tribute to Allah as is befitting to His glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us, as He says, "And We have instructed those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah." (Annisaa:131).
Dear believers,
Allah, the Most Exalted, has created Man and honoured him, and provided him with all requirements to earn his livelihood. For this purpose He has urged him to travel far and wide and try all the possible legal means. Allah says, "It is He who made the earth tame for you - so walk among its slopes and eat of His provision - and to Him is the resurrection." (Al Mulk:15).
The permissible earnings should be pure and gained lawfully. Their sources should neither be suspicious nor disputed, for Allah The Almighty says, "Then eat of what Allah has provided for you [which is] lawful and good." (Annahl:114).
As Allah, The Most Provident, has shown the legal ways for earning money, He has also explained how to better spend it without wasting it. Thus He called on people to be moderate, when He says, "And do not make your hand [as] chained to your neck or extend it completely and [thereby] become blamed and insolvent." (Israa:29). That is, they should neither scatter their wealth, nor withhold from spending.
In this sense, the miser will be blamed for his stinginess and the wasteful for his over-spending.
To avoid this end, Muslims are requested to spend according to priorities, and put necessities first then luxuries. They should not also throw away their wealth in trivial recreations or in the pursuit of extravagancies at the expense of the basic needs of their families. On this account, our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "it is sufficient as a sin upon a man that he does not take responsibility over those he is responsible for."
A man who indulges himself in luxuries that are endless and beyond his means will end up borrowing from the bank to cover what he has bought. This way he burdens himself with heavy loans, which he could have done without them.
Moreover some people borrow money although they know they cannot pay it back. Others do so while they are careless about repaying their debt. Our Guide Mohammed (pbuh) warns us against this, saying, "whoever takes the money of the people with the intention of repaying it, Allah will repay it on his behalf, and whoever takes it in order to damage it, then Allah will waste him."
Among the reasons that may cause someone to seek borrowing is imitating others and competing with them in spending and showing off material acquisitions. The Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) instructed this kind of people to look at the situation of others who are less fortunate. He also advised them not to vie those who are more well-off so for them not to ridicule the divine blessings and see their determination dwindles. He said, "Look at those who are lower than you and do not look at those who are above you, for, it is worthier that you do not belittle the blessing of Allah upon you."
Dear believers,
Please know that excess in borrowing without an urgent need may lead the indebted person to desperately begging for money, which the Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) warned against it when he said, "begging is not lawful for the rich nor for the physically fit."
There are also some people who dare to take advantage of others' generosity for no apparent necessity, except for exploiting them. These will face such a fate as described in this Hadith: "when a man is always begging from people, he would meet Allah (in a state) that there would be no flesh on his face."
For this reason, our Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) used to teach his companions the values of contentment, self-esteem and avoidance of begging from people. The latter is deemed destructive to one's own pride. 
Hakim bin Hizam (may Allah be pleased with him) said,  "I begged the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) and he gave me; I begged him again and he gave me. I begged him again and he gave me and said, O Hakim, wealth is pleasant and sweet. He who acquires it with self-contentment, it becomes a source of blessing for him; but it is not blessed for him who seeks it out of greed. He is like one who goes on eating but his hunger is not satisfied. The upper hand is better than the lower one.' I said to him, O Messenger of Allah, by Him Who sent you with the Truth I will not, after you, ask anyone for anything till I leave this world.''
So Abu Bakr (may Allah be pleased with him) would summon Hakim to give his rations, but he would refuse. Then Umar would call him but he would decline to accept anything. So Umar said addressing Muslims, "O Muslims, I ask you to bear testimony that I offer Hakim his share of the booty that Allah has assigned for him but he refuses my offer.'' Thus Hakim did not accept anything from anyone after the death of Messenger of Allah (pbuh), till he died.
Muslims have to be satisfied and grateful to Allah for what He has provided them with. As a reward, they will be happier by avoiding borrowing and begging of people. On this matter, our Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) said, "the successful one he who has entered the fold of Islam and is provided with sustenance which is sufficient for his needs, and Allah makes him content with what He has bestowed upon him."
O Allah, let us be amongst Your servants who are self-content with Your provision, and bless what you have prescribed for us.
May Allah help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: " O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
Fear Allah and please be aware that a debt is a worry by night and a humiliation by day. It causes distress and distracts thoughts. That is why our Prophet Muhamamd (pbuh) sought refuge with Allah, The Most Exalted,  from it. On the authority of Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) that the Prophet used to invoke Allah in the prayer saying, "I seek refuge in You from sin and debt." Somebody said to him, "Why do you so frequently seek refuge with Allah from being in debt?" The Prophet (pbuh) replied, "A person in debt tells lies whenever he speaks, and breaks promises whenever he makes them."
This Hadith highlights the serious consequences of debt, which can be tolerated only for extreme necessity. And if someone borrows money to meet a need, he should, however, observe some ethics. He should, for example, be sincere and determined to pay it back. He should also be committed to repaying it in due time, as the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "the best of men is he who repays his debt in the best manner."
Additionally, a Muslim should avoid delaying the repayment of his debt or being indifferent to it. Transgressing these rules will downgrade one's faith and consequently lead to him doing wrong. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "procrastination by the rich (in repaying debts) is injustice to someone."
Dear Muslims, 
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













