addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE launches a new initiative with the aim of managing organisational risks and meeting the recommendations of ISO 31000.
During the opening activities of this programme organised by the Office of Strategic Planning and Performance Evaluation and attended by the GAIAE's officials and staff, Dr Mohammed Mataer al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, highlighted the special support to the Awqaf from HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Dr al Kaabi mentioned that the UAE leadership's keen interest in the GAIAE had led it to perform well and provide the best services to the public. This has, in turn, entitled it to obtain three ISO certificates for quality management and the Sheikh Khalifa Government Excellence Awards under the category of public entities that achieved highest results.
To consolidate these achievements, Dr al Kaabi explained that the management of organisational risks should be a culture within the institution and an index of performance across all of its departments and entities.
"It is one of the important factors that helps taking efficient decisions. So any risk management policy should take into account the vision and the culture of the organisation and be in line with its ongoing programmes. This will help minimising threats and maximising opportunities," he said.
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi urged all members of staff to positively engage in all of the activities that are conducive to the success of this programme. He further explained that controlling negative factors affecting sound decision making is better by adopting the best attested practices as well as by taking advantage of the organisational working environment to fulfill the Awqaf's vision and mission.













