addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I pay tribute to Him as is befitting to His glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah , through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer."  (Annisaa:1).
Dear Believers,
Children are a great Divine blessing upon us. They are both the adornment of the this life and the outcome of love as Allah The Almighty says, "Wealth and children are [but] adornment of the worldly life." (Al Kahf:46). For parents, they are a source of joy when they are young and a support when they are adults. As well as they carry their names, they are a cause for remembering them and ensuring continuity.
Not only do we find great pleasure to talk to them but also that when we live beside them and attach our hopes to them. The Prophet Ibrahim (pbuh) invoked his Creator saying, "My Lord, grant me [a child] from among the righteous. So We gave him good tidings of a forbearing boy." (Assaffat:100-101). The Prophet Zakaria also supplicated to Allah saying, "My Lord, grant me from Yourself a good offspring. Indeed, You are the Hearer of supplication." (Al Imarn:38).
A pious child is indeed an asset to his parents in this life and the next as the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "When a man dies all except three of his works perish, namely, a permanent endowment for charity, useful knowledge, and righteous progeny that bring honour upon his memory."
 A righteous child shall be distinguished by his good education and the privilege of his learning beneficial knowedge. This is because a man of knwoledge enjoys high status, prompting people to pray for him in return for his special contribution to the society.
 As such, Knoweldge is highly valued for its own sake because it expels darkness and ushers in peace. And when it is combined with serious work, it leads nations to progress and sharpens people's determination. No wonder then that the first word revealed of the Holy Quan was "Iqraa" (Recite).
Dear Muslims,
As our children, in schools and universities, are preparing  for their final exams we have to advise them to adhere to piety as this leads to Paradise and is an escape from hardship. Allah, The Most Exalted, says in this regard, "And whoever fears Allah - He will make for him of his matter ease." (Attalaq:4).
 Students should come to know more about their Creator and show the same attitude whether in prosperity or adversity as is mentioned in the Hadith: "get to know Allah in prosperity and He will know you in adeversity." Thus those who genuinely follow the right path as asked to do, Allah The Almighty will grant them success and empower them to benefit their community and nation.
They should also call on their trust in Allah and seek the permissible means to achieve their goals. Allah The Most Exalted says, "Say, "Sufficient for me is Allah ; upon Him [alone] rely the [wise] reliers." (Azzumar:38).
 Success shall then come as a result of puting a strong trust in Allah and being persevering. Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) used to advise his daugther Fatima (may Allah be pleased with her), saying, "O Allah, I hope for Your mercy, so do not entrust me to myself even for the twinkling of an eye."
 Dear Servants of Allah,
Among the aspects of placing faith in Allah is studying early in the morning because at this time one tends to be more active and fresh. That is why our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to pray: "O Allah, bless my Umma in their early morning."
Likewsie, students should always remember to supplicate to Allah for assistance as the Prophet Musa (Moses) did when he said, "My Lord, expand for me my breast [with assurance]. And ease for me my task. And untie the knot from my tongue. That they may understand my speech." (Taha:2528). But when they find it hard to understand a complicated matter, they can invoke Allah the way our Prophet Muhammad used to pray: "O Allah, nothing is easy but what you have made to be easy."
Our dear students, you are advised to show respect to knowledge by appreciaitng books. Thus you should neither destroy them nor look down on them. You should also avoid shelving them in an inappropriate place because it is most likely they mention Allah's names somewhere. In this regard The Almighty Allah says, "That [is so]. And whoever honours the symbols of Allah - indeed, it is from the piety of hearts." (Al Haj:32).
Having said this, we turn to Allah to ask His favour to help our sons and daughters and guide them to success. May Allah help us and them to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with Your Injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims
Fear Allah and please be aware that exams are a source of major concern for students. So teachers need to help them regain their composure, self-confidence and focus through good advice in compliance with Allah's orders: "And speak to people good [words]." (Al Baqara:83).
For their part, parents should make sure during these days to rightly guide their children and give them more attention. They should provide everything they can to help them focus on their exams, including offering some recreation and praying for them. Allah The Ever Exalting says, "And those who say, "Our Lord, grant us from among our wives and offspring comfort to our eyes and make us an example for the righteous." (Al Furqan:74).
Dear Muslims, 
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to grant our children knowledge and bless them with what You have taught them. May Allah guide them to benefit their country and people and crown their efforts with success, Ameen.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













