addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
All praise is due to Allah. Exalted is He Who took his Servant from Al Masjid Al Haram to Al Masjid Al Aqsa. I testify that there is no deity but Allah, One without partner, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
 As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab:70-71).
Dear Believers,
We are celebrating these days the great occasion of Israa and Miraj, about which Allah, glory be to Him, says, "Exalted is He who took His Servant by night from Al Masjid Al Haram to  Al Masjid Al Aqsa, whose surroundings We have blessed, to show him of Our signs. Indeed, He is the Hearing, the Seeing." (Israa:1).
 Miracles are something supernatural that Allah avails through his messengers to prove their prophethood and honour their status. They came also to manifest Allah's boundless might, guide believers to remain steadfast and test the faith of biased people. Israa and Miraj was one of them. It occurred after successive ordeals our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) had endured, indicating that we are doomed in this life to undergo some adversity. Allah, The most Exalted,  says, "Do men think that they will be left alone on saying, "We believe", and that they will not be tested?" (Al Ankaboot:2).
 Thus a believer should be patient in handling affairs of life and serious in his pursuit for achieving his goals. Yet, he should neither push himself too hard, nor feel anguish when things go wrong.  He needs simply to believe in action and remain positive. If he, however, fails even though he has tried hard, he needs to pray to Allah to relieve his distress. This calls to mind the value of patience and trust in Allah in helping believers overcome their ordeals and echoes what our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "I know that the patience on what you hate a lot of good, and that victory comes with patience, relief with affliction, and ease with hardship."
Dear Muslims, 
 The Isra and Miraj was a journey that had put our Prophet Muhammd (pbuh) in a high rank and showed him some of His greatest signs as the Almighty says, "The sight [of the Prophet] did not swerve, nor did it transgress [its limit]. He certainly saw of the greatest signs of his Lord." (Annajm:17-18).
During his night journey, the Prophet Muhammd (pbuh) was greeted by angels and found  for him a company of other Prophets (pbut) who related their experinces with their own people. He was taught by the Prophet Ibrahim (pbuh) to offer Tasbih (remembrance and glorification of Allah) every day, explaning to him that this is the plants of Pradise. It was reported that (Prophet Ibrahim, pbuh) said, "O Muhammad, salute your nation on my behalf and say Salam and tell them that paradise has good soil and sweet water and its land is fertile and its plants are Subhana Allah Wa al Hamdulillah Wa La ilaha illa Allah Wallahu Akbar." For his part, Musa (pbuh) advised him (Muhammad, pbuh) to go to Allah to reduce the number of prayers, when he said, "verily your Umma will not be able to bear this burden; return to your Lord and ask Him to make things lighter."
 One of the many lessons that we can draw from the exchanges between the earlier prophets and Muhammad (pbuh) is the importance of voluntarily offerinig advice and sharing of experiences and information. About this, our Master Muhammd (pbuh) said, "and when one of you counsels his brother, to him should the latter his views offer."
 A second lesson that we came to learn through our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) was during his ascension to heaven when he saw the lot of those who get used to backbiting and spreading rumours, being some of the despicable behaviours that destroy relations amongst members of the community. He said, "when I was taken up to heaven I came upon people who had nails of copper and were scratching their faces and their breasts. I said, 'who are these people, Jibreel?' He replied: 'they are those who were given to backbiting and who aspersed people's honour'."
Muslims must therefore  avoid tainting their social gatherings by tracking people's faults as it is strictly prohibited in the Holy Quran. Allah, the All Beneficient, says, "O you who have believed, avoid much [negative] assumption. Indeed, some assumption is sin. And do not spy or backbite each other. Would one of you like to eat the flesh of his brother when dead? You would detest it. And fear Allah ; indeed, Allah is Accepting of repentance and Merciful." (Al Hujurat:12).
 Dear Muslims,
 When the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) came back from his journey Quraysh strongly denied his account and spread rumours about him. Not only did its leaders incite people against him, but also ask him to provide evidences. On this matter, he said, "I found myself in Hijr and the Quraish were asking me about my night journey. I was asked about things pertaining to Bait Al Maqdis which I could not preserve (in my mind). I was very much vexed, so vexed as I had never been before. Then Allah raised it (Bait Al Maqdis) before my eyes. I looked towards it, and I gave them the information about whatever they questioned me."
 Another lesson we can learn from the Isra and Miraj is that we need to verify  the accuracy of news we receive and report as our Prophet (pbuh) said, "It is enough lying for a man to speak of everything that he hears."
 Bearing this in mind, we turn to Allah to ask His favour to have us among His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 Dear Believers,
 Fear Allah and please know that the Isra and Miraj journey has clearly shown the elevated station of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), the love of Allah for him and the special welcome the latter received from Al Malaa Al Aala (the Highest chiefs) in heavens. This requires of us to do right by him, obey him, rever him and comply with his orders. Thus whenever his name is mentioned, we should pray for him. Allah says, "So they who have believed in him, honoured him, supported him and followed the light which was sent down with him - it is those who will be the successful." (Al Aaraf:157).
 Dear Muslims, 
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
 The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
 O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
 O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













