addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei has recently toured the work progress in many mosque projects under the framework of Mafhas al Qatah programme in the areas of Musaffah, Al Falah and Al Shamkhah. He also visited several Waqf properties in the Tourist Club area, Manasir and Bani Yas to inform about their management, maintenance and the extent of their tenants' satisfaction.
He was accompanied by Mr Khaled Al Neyadi, the executive director of Waqf affairs, and many endowment projects' officials. On this occasion, he instructed those in charge at the GAIAE  to speed up the execution of current projects and complete the handling of plans and tenders as soon as possible. This is in order to meet the need for mosques in cities and the new urban developments.
He also asked to coordinate closely with Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council in regard to the designation of the sites for building mosques, their areas and the required services in accordance to the Abu Dhabi Vision 2030.
"The aim behind this tour is to accelerate the work progress in the construction of new mosques and see closely the extent of success of the privatisation of Waqf properties' management. The aim of this process is to implement  the best practices in leasing and maintenance and achieve higher levels of tenants' satisfaction," Dr Hamadan said.
He further explained that the GAIAE had launched the privatisation programme since 2009, which led the Waqf revenues to increase by more than a double. This has also been driven by the keen interest of the wise leadership in its projects and the various investment instruments.
To maintain a well-performing Waqaf activities, the GAIAE has successfully established partnerships with the private sector and maintained good contact with donors and their  inheritors via periodic reports. The latter comprise information about the name of  the endower, endowment details, the endower's conditions, the age and value of the property, the value of the land and the building, in addition to the average proceeds from shops and apartments' rent.
It is worth mentioning that the GAIAE has initiated many awareness campaigns about the Waqf focusing on its religious value, its human and civilisational role. These efforts have encouraged many philanthropists, both Emiratis and expatriates, to donate some of their properties and increase their contribution in building  mosques and other Waqaf projects.
 
 
 













