addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE celebrated the anniversary of Israa and Miraj at the Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed mosque in Abu Dhabi. Present were HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director for Islamic affairs, other officials and many people from all walks of life.
After recitation of verses from the Holy Quran, Sheikh Taleb al Shehi, director of preaching department , gave a speech on behalf of Awqaf in which he extended his greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and to all Emirati people and residents.
Mr al Shehi highlighted the tradition of our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), being a renewable source of guidance for us and how he had been honoured by Allah, The Most High, through Israa and Miraj.
It was not all about honour, Al Shehi said. The night journey was also a mission for our Prophet (pbuh) as it was the moment when Allah ordered him and his Umma to observe the five prayers daily. It also marked the moderate nature of Islam and the special status of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh).
Through the Prophet's journey to heaven, we came to know how Islam has sought to protect the integrity of individuals and prohibit its transgression. Muhammad (pbuh) saw closely the miserable lot of those who track people's faults and backbite on them.  
Mr al Shehi commended the approach adopted in the UAE based on moderation and tolerance stressing that the country has become a beacon of stability that preserves human dignity under wise leaders whose vision is to do good and spread peace, love, coexistence and respect of others.
"The General authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments is committed to these principles via its various channels of action such as Friday sermons, lectures and seminars, publications, endowments, and memorisation of Quran activities," Mr al Shehi said.
Other speeches by other scholars revolved around the virtues and lessons of the blessed Israa and Miraj, inviting people to ponder upon its message and lessons.
On this occasion, the GAIAE issued a booklet and distributed 20,000 copies of it for free.
 
 













