addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
All praise is due to Allah. I pay tribute to Him as is befitting to His glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab:70-71).
O believers,
Muslims are characterised by unique qualities and morals, distinguishing them from others whether in terms of belief, worship or  behaviour. First, they believe in Allah Alone, His Angels, His Books, His Prophets and Qadar (fate), whether good or bad. They always seek His Glorious assistance by supplicating to Him, and follow the example of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in all what he used to do or avoid.
Allah The Almighty says, "There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often." (Al Ahzab:21).
Second, Muslims apply themselves to reading the Holy Quran and pondering its meanings. They constantly comply with its precepts and no day elapses without getting involved into it. This way they ready themselves to meet their Creator by doing good deeds and pursuing what pleases Him. No wonder then that they are satisfied with what Allah has provided them, praising Him abundantly in good times and staying patient in adversity.
In this regard, our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Wondrous is the affair of the believer for there is good in every matter of his and this is not the case with anyone except the believer; for if he is happy, he thanks Allah, thus there is good for him, and if he is harmed, he shows patience, thus there is good for him."
Dear Believers,
The third principle of Muslims is offering optional prayers at night as our Prophet used to do. To purify themselves, they should strive to pray at least two Rakaas at night and observe forenoon (Adduha) prayer and other Sunan.
As a reward, the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "If any Muslim servant (of Allah) prays for the sake of Allah twelve Rakaas (of Sunan) every day, over and above the obligatory ones, Allah will build for him a house in Paradise."
Fourth, Muslims should commit themselves to paying out an amount from their wealth as duly prescribed by Allah, The Most Exalted. They should even go further than this by adopting an orphan, helping the poor and comforting the sick. Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "If somebody gives in charity something equal to a date from his honestly earned money- for nothing ascends to Allah except good-then Allah will take it in His Right (Hand) and bring it up for its owner as anyone of you brings up a baby horse, till it becomes like a mountain."
Fifth, Muslims should observe fasting in Ramadan and also on other days as our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to do. Besides, they have to continuously glorify Allah, The Most High, by reciting the morning and evening remembrance and seeking His forgiveness. It was reported that a man came and requested the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh): "O Messenger of Allah, the Islamic edicts appear to be too much, so tell me something, which I should hold fast. He answered, "Let your tongue remain moist with remembrance of Allah."
Additionally, Muslims need to follow the example of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) in his dealings with others for he used to treat people nicely and avoid harming them in all manners. He said, "A Muslim is a person who does not harm another Muslim with his tongue or with his hands."
To acquire such ethics, Muslims have to be, first and foremost, honest in speech and fair in dealing with people. A true believer can be anything save a liar or untrustworthy. It may happen he becomes mean or coward, but he should never be a liar. It was said to the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh): "can the believer be a coward?' He said, 'Yes.' He was asked, 'can the believer be a miser?' He said, 'Yes.' He was asked, 'can the believer be a liar?' He said, 'No.'"
Muslims should, likewise, be positive and beneficial to others by reaching out to people and give help. And if they cannot benefit people, they should at least keep away from harming them. It was reported by Abu Musa al Ashaari that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "on every Muslim there is enjoined (a compulsory) Sadaqa (alms)." They (the people) said, "If one has nothing?' He said, "He should work with his hands so that he may benefit himself and give in charity." They said, "If he cannot work or does not work?" He said, "Then he should help the oppressed unhappy person (by word or action or both)." They said, "If he does not do it?" He said, "Then he should enjoin what is good (or said what is reasonable).' They said, "If he does not do that''' He said, "Then he should refrain from doing evil, for that will be considered for Him as a Sadaqa (charity)."
Muslims also need to think wisely, be resolute and consistent. They should neither follow their whims and desires, nor run with vain talkers and deceivers for our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Do not let yourselves become blind-followers, saying that if the people are good then we will be good, and if they are unjust then we will be unjust. Rather, make up your own minds; if the people are good then be good, and if they are evil then do not be unjust."
With this in mind, we turn to Allah to ask His favour to have us among His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 Dear Believers,
 Please fear Allah and know that loving your work and excelling at it is another quality that distinguish Muslims. We all, therefore, should do our job properly and appropriately, and be careful not to be deceived by the prestige of a position or be overwhelmed by the lust for personal interests. Rather we need to be sympathetic when interacting with people and serve them with a willing spirit. As well as excusing people, we need also to share their joy and sorrow and treat them just the way we like to be treated. About this, Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) said, "The believer is friendly and likeable  and there is no good in the one who is not friendly nor likeable."
These are but a snapshot of the main virtues of a Muslim. So whoever ponder over them and fully grasp their meanings will truly experience the value of Islam, as Allah the Most Exalted says, "And who is better in speech than one who invites to Allah and does righteousness and says, "Indeed, I am of the Muslims." (Fussilat:33).
 Dear Muslims, 
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
 The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
 O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45













