addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Mohammed V University Agdal- Abu Dhabi awarded a master degree in Islamic studies to two Emirati students: Ms Sheikha Awadh al Kaabi and Ms Latifa Musbah al Kaabi.
They respectively defended their theses on rules and principles of Fiqh (religious jurisprudence) and its applications to contemporary issues and the plastic surgery between legitimacy and realism. For their outstanding work, Sheikha al Kaabi got a distinction of "excellent" and Latifa al Kaabi obtained "good."
Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the head of the academic jury panel,  commended the fraternal relations between the two wise leadership of UAE and Morocco, which has resulted in the creation of the Mohammed V University Agdal-Abu Dhabi.
This close relationship has also benefitted UAE students, male and female, who can obtain their master degrees after completion of three years of study at the University. In the first two years they have to attend taught courses and in the third year prepare and submit a thesis.
Ms Sheikha al Kaabi was the first student to submit her dissertation under the supervision of Dr Ahmed Abou Zeid, and defended it on June 20, 2012 before a committee consisted of Prof Dr Mohammed Matar Salem al Kaabi and Prof Dr al Jtililai al Marini. The disscussion was also attended by Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Court, professors, students and parents.
Ms Sheikha al Kaabi was able to establish a link between theory and existing social issues, hence making of the principles of Fiqh workable tools to address several contemporary topics of immediate interest to people. The researcher looked mainly into the evidences that support the permissibility or non-permissibility of many new issues, such as dry cleaning, use of gelatine, human cloning, unified Adhan, pre-marriage medical examination, temporary marriage, skin patch, among others.
It is worth mentioning that it is the first time that the unified Adhan in UAE has been addressed in a postgraduate study.
On the same day, Ms Latifa al Kaabi defended her thesis on the legitimacy of plastic surgery under the supervision of Prof Dr Rachida Boukhabra before a committee composed of Prof Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi and Prof Dr Abdul Karim Akkioui.
The researcher explained that she started from a general observation that  plastic surgeries had become widespread in the Arab world and there should be rules to govern practical sciences to ensure they best serve humans. She then highlighted the fact that Islam combines between achieving people's interests and preventing harm, mentioning that it is a religion that does not, however, undermine beauty and adornment.
In her study she traced the evolution of cosmetic surgery and how it has drawn on a new beauty concept defining the desired shape and look of the human body. "Such a view has invaded the Islamic world in a frightening manner. This prompted me to discuss this issue from two perspectives: legitimacy and realism. Under the first heading I discussed the plastic surgery's regulations in terms of permissibility  and prohibition while under the second its status" Ms Latifa al Kaabi said.
She further explained that plastic surgery is of two kinds: restorative for treatment of burns and deformities, which is permissible, while the second one is cosmetic aiming at making someone look physically more beautiful. She concluded that the latter is forbidden in Islam because it alters the creation of Allah.
The researcher also spoke of the concept of beauty amongst Muslims and non-Muslims and mentioned some statistics about people, Emiratis and expatriates, seeking this kind of surgery in UAE. As a solution, she suggested rules and conditions with the aim of restricting this phenomenon and legally prohibiting it.
After deliberation, the jury panel asked the researcher to expand on the topic of her thesis and further investigate issues related to it. It decided to award her the master degree with the distinction of "good."
At the end of the defence of both theses, Prof Dr Hamada said that the keen interest of students to attend this academic discussion was so important because it marked a culmination of a process of learning and training on how to prepare research. He then pointed out that the master degree leads to the important phase of producing breakthrough research as part of doctorate programmes.
 













