addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The student Shemma Yusuf al Dhaheri obtained a master degree in Islamic studies from Mohammed V Agdal-Abu Dhabi University for her final thesis on marriage and means of facilitating it in UAE. She undertook here research under the  supervision of Dr Hayat al Barhmati.
The discussion session was presided over by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the Chairman of the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, and was also attended by Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Court, in addition to professors from the University, students as well as parents and interested public.
 Dr al Mazrouei praised the efforts of the prudent UAE leadership since the era of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, which have enabled the Emirati youth to set up Arab and Muslim families of their own. In this they are fully supported by a community that is proud of its heritage and sense of belonging.
He also commanded the good choice of the subject and its scientific approach of national and social relevance. "This is the first time this issue has been raised in a postgraduate study," he said, adding, "the academic cooperation between the Mohammed V Agdal-Abu Dhabi University and Abu Dhabi Education Council has yielded beneficial results as we can see many Emiratis producing useful theoretical and practical research."
At the beginning of her thesis defence, Ms Shemma al Dhaheri gave an overview of her research, which is twofold: a theoretical account into marriage provisions in Islam and social and field research. She highlighted the role of the wise UAE leadership and the means it had availed for young people to get married. She then suggested scientific answers for addressing reluctance to marriage amongst youth saying, "I chose the topic of marriage because I would like to contribute to my country by looking into such a social issue and suggest solutions  from an Islamic point of view. I also would like to discuss marriage given the importance of family as a cement for consolidating the cohesion of the community and ensuring its success."
After  throughout discussion, the academic panel, consisted of HE Dr al Mazrouei and Dr Rachida Boukhabra decided to award the researcher the master degree with a distinction of "Excellent," about which she said, "the work has been relevant to my society, which we all seek to serve and preserve... We also strive for addressing any issue that may affect its security and stability. Indeed the reluctance to marriage is a harmful phenomenon and may even get worse. That is why it was necessary to explain the Islamic approach in facilitating marriage, which many people may overlook today because of traditions and customs. The latter have badly affected many of our young citizens."
 
 
 













