addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE's website obtained a full appreciation measured against a possible 100% mark according to a report assessing the quality of government entities' websites by the UAE e-government for the year 2011.
The annual evaluation covered 41 ministries and authorities and looked into five categories: domain, hosting, information structure, design, usability, explorability, online content management, marketing and communication.
Awqaf  is keen to interact with the public online via its website and all other means of social networks, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, said in a statement. This special interest is also in line with the instructions of the prudent UAE leadership and answers the communications needs of the many branches of the GAIAE as well as departments and ongoing  endowment projects.
"We praise Allah the Most High and we command the efforts of our wise leaders which put us in a forefront position through the use of smart technologies. Our website was successful in meeting all the evaluation requirements. For example we added the text voice reader for visual impaired persons and a section for creating Facebook, Twitter and YouTube pages and channels.
"We also developed discussion forums that include electronic services, the GAIAE's strategies and policies, copyright issues and an explicit indication were made regarding copying rights disclaimers and privacy policy. Moreover  the English version of the website has been regularly edited and updated."
Dr al Kaabi further explained that this remarkable result should serve as a drive for pursuing new avenues of excellence, especially that the IT field is fast and ever changing. Thus the IT department has aligned its action plan with the GAIAE' projects and sought to put into effect  the new evaluation standards focusing on improving the online content applications, both in terms of quantity and quality. It also aims at helping users get access to electronic services easily and effectively by increasing their participation.
"The website is one of the most important tools of mass communication and  also one of the means through which the GAIAE is committed to achieving its vision with the aim of  promoting social awareness and progress according to the tolerant teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges. It also helps fulfil its mission of enhancing religious awareness by building and maintaining mosques and Holy Quran memorisation centres, managing Haj and Umra affairs and investing in Waqf for the good of society," he said.
The website is dynamic, allowing the public and the Awqaf remote users to interact easily and choose from many electronic services, including but not limited to, improving Friday Khutba, e- Fatwa, Haj and Umra system, mosque building request, donation and Waqf and complaints and suggestions. It is worth mentioning that the website successively obtained full mark 100% at the level of federal government websites in 2010 and 2011. It was also awarded the renowned Technological Innovation Prize in the category of state agencies and official authorities for the 2011 E-Government Web Awards, which had qualified it to compete for the e-government contest at the level of the GCC countries for the same year.
 













