addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE held a workshop for its branches in Fujairah and Khorfakan, which was presided over by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, and attended by the executive and branches' directors all over the UAE.
Dr al Kaabi met first with Imams, Muezzins and staff in all of the Emirates and then with the executive and branches' directors.
At the outset of his first meeting, Dr al Kaabi prayed for HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
The participants looked into the situation of mosques and their preparations for the holy month of Ramadan.
On the occasion, Dr al Kaabi conveyed the greetings of HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's chairman, to all Imams and Muezzins, expressing his gratitude to their efforts in serving the houses of Allah. He also thanked the executive and the branches' directors for their active participation.
 Dr al Kaabi spoke of the excellent level the UAE mosques had reached in serving the community thanks to the unlimited support of the wise UAE leadership and the dedication of Imams and Muezzins to achieving the vision and mission of the Awqaf. To maintain this standard, he urged them to preserve the acquisitions made and seek development.
The meeting also discussed the special interest devoted to research and distinguished researchers amongst the Awqaf's staff in addition to ways for ensuring the occupational satisfaction for all.
The second leg of the workshop examined the situation of mosques in companies, shopping malls, airports, land ports of entry, and prayer rooms in some residential buildings. Participants decided that these mosques should come under the GAIAE's supervision in terms of the Unified Adhan, the appointment of Imams and Khateebs as well as the choice of lectures. These  will ensure that they meet the UAE's standards.
The other points on the agenda were the programmes and activities during Ramadan, namely the late evening lectures and recitations and the official ceremony in remembrance of Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. This year, it will commemorate the eight anniversary of his demise and will be held in Abu Dhabi.
As for the other activities, the GAIAE has allocated a budget for perfuming mosques and opening corridors on the right and left sides in Friday mosques for easy exit of worshippers. It also plans to print 100,000 copies of the Holy Quran in variety of sizes, including large and light ones designed for the elderly.
For ensuring the good maintenance of mosques,  Dr al Kaabi gave instructions to monitor the cleaning companies and strictly take the necessary measures against violators of service contracts.
 
 













