addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In line with the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, the national campaign for helping the Yemeni people has kicked off all over the country. The initiative came in response to the deteriorating economic and living conditions in Yemen, where about 13 million people are on the brink of starvation.
HH Sheikh Khalifa has always led efforts to bring humanitarian relief to people affected of disasters worldwide, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's chairman said in a statement. He added: "Our leadership has set the example for all people when he donated half a billion dirhams, hence opening the door for everyone to contribute."
HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Representative of the Ruler in the Western Region and the Chairman of the Red Crescent Authority instructed all of the RCA's staff to do the necessary to carry out the campaign entitled: "Sanadhom" (Support them).
As part of its humane and civilisational mission, the GAIAE has answered the relief call and was quick to donate one million dirhams. "We are grateful to the GAIAE's Board of Directors which decided to contribute with this sum of money according to the purposes of Islam and the Authority's religious role. Thus our reward is on behalf of all contributors to the Waqf projects. One of the important  fields of Waqf is to help those in calamities ," Dr al Mazrouei said.
For his part, HE Rashid al Mansouri, RCA's acting Deputy Secretary General for Local Affairs, praised the instructions of HH Sheikh Khalifa and the close follow-up of HH Sheikh Hamdan. He also lauded the prompt response of the GAIAE to the relief campaign and its generous donation.
"The GAIAE was the first government entity to contribute to the campaign and proved that the Islamic endowment has always been of great help during crises. The GAIAE is an entity that strongly supports the humanitarian programmes initiated by the prudent leadership and implemented by the RCA," Mr al Mansouri said.
 Dr al Mazrouei handed over a cheque of one million dirhams to RCA represented by Mr al Mansouri during a ceremony which was also attended by HE Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general.
 













