addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He multiplies His reward for those who spend for good causes and give charity as He says, "And whatever you spend of good - it will be fully repaid to you, and you will not be wronged." (Al Baqara:272).
 I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners, and that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger.
Saiyda Khadija (may Allah be pleased with her) once described the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) saying, "By Allah, you join ties of relationship, you speak the truth, you bear people's burden, you help the destitute, you entertain guests, and you help against the vicissitudes which affect people."
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and to construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
 Dear Muslims,
 The brotherly people of Yemen are enduring a difficult humanitarian situation, causing many segments of society to fall short of meeting their needs. Many also lack resources and might fail to feed their children.
 It is our duty therefore to stand by them, so let us all support them and bring them relief. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "If anyone relieves a Muslim's hardship in this world then Allah will remove from him a hardship of the hereafter. And if anyone conceals a Muslim's fault then Allah will conceal (his fault) in the world and the hereafter. And Allah goes on helping the slave as long as the slave helps his brother."
 He also said in a praising note, "the people of Yemen have come to you. They have most mild thoughts and, most soft hearts. Faith comes from Yemen and wisdom is (also) from there."
 O Servants of Allah, please be aware that one of the most beloved deeds to Allah is to bring help to people in need as our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "the most beloved deed to Allah, may He be dignified and honoured, is a feeling of happiness you cause to another Muslim, that you remove a misfortune from him, that you pay back his debt, or that you dispel hunger from him."
 Dear Believers,
 Thus whoever donates money to help the needy and feed the hungry will earn Allah's satisfaction and ultimately get the great reward of Paradise. Allah, The Most Exalted, says, "Believe in Allah and His Messenger and spend out of that in which He has made you successors. For those who have believed among you and spent, there will be a great reward." (Al Hadid:7).
You are therefore invited today to donate for the sake of Allah, Who, in return, will reward you dearly as He further says, "Who is he that will loan to Allah a beautiful loan, which Allah will double unto his credit and multiply many times? It is Allah that giveth (you) Want or plenty, and to Him shall be your return." (Al Baqara:245).
 Dear Servants of Allah,
 Our Prophet (pbuh) urged us to help to the poor and those in distress. It was reported that some people came to the Prophet (pbuh); they were barefooted, naked, wearing striped woollen clothes. The colour of the face of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) underwent a change when he saw them in poverty.
 He then entered his house and came out and commanded Bilal to pronounce Adhan. He (the Holy Prophet) observed prayer along with his Companion and then addressed them reciting verses of the Holy Quran: " 0 people, fear your Lord, Who created you from a single being" to the end of the verse: "Allah is ever a Watcher over you". He then recited a verse from Surat Al Hashr: "Fear Allah. and let every soul consider that which it sends forth for the morrow and fear Allah" (18).
Then the audience began to vie with one another in giving charity. Some donated a dinar, others a dirham, others clothes. Some donated a measure of wheat, some a measure of dates till he (the Holy Prophet) said: "bring even if it is half a date." Then a person from among the Ansar came there with a money bag which his hands could scarcely lift; in fact, they could not lift. Then the people followed continuously, till two heaps of eatables and clothes were formed, and the face of the Messenger (pbuh) was seen glistening, like gold (on account of joy).
 Let us therefore join efforts and contribute as far as we can to support the Yemeni people by providing the most basic needs such as food and medicine, among others. We can do this through accredited charities and foundations in our counrty, mainly the Red Crescent Authority. The latter has a strong field experience in humanitarian and relief operations.
 O servants of Allah, this is also an opportunity for you to invest in what lasts and whose reward is greater. Spend your money in charity and Allah will recompense your deed manyfold and make the Paradise your eternal abode.
 With this in mind, we turn to Allah to ask His favour to have us amongst His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
 Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, please fear Allah and be aware that Islam has strongly advised us to spend and donate for good causes. It describes those who help the poor and needy as amongst the closest to Allah and most loved by Him, The Most Providing. In this regard, our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Allah (The Almighty and The Sublime be He) will say on the Day of Resurrection, 'O son of Adam, I fell ill and you visited Me not.'
 He will say: 'O Lord, and how should I visit You when You are the Lord of the worlds?'
 He will say: 'Did you not know that My servant so-and-so had fallen ill and you visited him not? Did you not know that had you visited him you would have found Me with him? O son of Adam, I asked you for food and you fed Me not.'
  He will say: 'O Lord, and how should I feed You when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say: 'Did you not know that My servant so-and-so asked you for food and you fed him not? Did you not know that had you fed him you would surely have found that (the reward for doing so) with Me? O son of Adam, I asked you to give Me to drink and you gave Me not to drink.'
 He will say: 'O Lord, how should I give You to drink when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say: 'My servant so-and-so asked you to give him to drink and you gave him not to drink. Had you given him to drink you would have surely found that with Me'."
Dear Muslims,
 Please know that there are more than ten million people in Yemen, of whom more than a million children, are suffering poverty and misfortune. They are all appealing to you today for help, so let us bring relief to them and meet their needs. Let us be of help to them so Allah The Almighty be of help to us.
O Servants of Allah,
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
 The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 May Allah ease the distress of people in Yemen and bestow upon them Your wholesome provision. O Allah, grant us success in helping them and grant us the favour of Your  Aceptance and Mercy, You The Lord of the Worlds.
 O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
 O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
 O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
 O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













