addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah and I testify that there is no deity save  Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His  Servant and Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and  selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah  be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who  follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.  As to what follows, I call upon myself and all of you to be ever  conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has  ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak  words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds  and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has  certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab:70-71).
O Believers,
Allah, Glory be to Him, says, "So for this let the competitors compete."  (Al Mutaffifin:26), illustrating how people in this world are vying to  achieve goals and look forward to having their wishes granted. In this  pursuit, they all hope for a good end. But the most virtuous way in  terms of reward and status for people to strive for is to engage in good  deeds for the sake of Allah.   For this, there is no better time than the holy month of Ramadan as  Allah, Exalted be He, has made it the season of goodness and good deeds.  He thus made it an opportunity for His Servants to obtain extra reward  and get closer to their Creator.   Its benefit was clearly shown by the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) when he  said, "when it is the first night of the month of Ramadan, the devils  and the resolutely evil jinn are enchained, the gates of Hell are firmly  locked such that no one of them are opened, the gates of Paradise are  opened such that none of them are closed, and a caller proclaims, 'O  pursuer of good, proceed and O pursuer of evil, refrain.' [There are  those] whom Allah salvages from Hell and that is in every [Ramadan]  night."  Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) also urged us to perfect ourselves so that to  welcome the holy month of Ramadan with pure souls and hearts when he  said, "If one of you is fasting, he should avoid sexual relation with  his wife and quarreling, and if somebody should fight or quarrel with  him, he should say, 'I am fasting'."   In the light of His guidance, the righteous people used to prepare for  the blessed Ramadan by supplicating to Allah, Glory be to Him, to give  them life till they can witness Ramadan. When it ends, they then beseech  Him for another six months to accept their fasting and prayers. They  used to say, "May we, with Your grace, reach the presence and the  benefits of the holy month of Ramadan."
This is an evidence of the high status of the holy month of Ramadan, for  the cause of which the pious servants apply themselves to their prayers  and supplications a year long.
So do strive, servants of Allah, in Ramadan to be amongst the people of  acceptance by avoiding whatever can contradict the sublime merit of this  great duty. Our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) said, "who did not abandon false  words, and actions based on falsehood (while fasting), Allah is  indifferent to their giving up food and drink."  Dear Believers,
As you are on the threshold of Ramadan, the month of mercy and  forgiveness, you will be overwhelmed with Allah's security and His mercy  will be descended. Please be aware therefore to seize this great  opportunity so may Allah accept your supplications and forgive your  misdeeds. Also bear in mind that during this holy month, Allah, Glory be  to him, look at what you are contending for and He boasts about you to  His angels. So whoever remembers Allah and asks His forgiveness in  Ramadan, Allah fulfills his wishes.  As such, we need to engage in goodness and always be aware that those  who are denied Allah's mercy are really doomed to misery. Ramadan is the  right time to well benefit from the flow of its blessings by increasing  goodness and protecting our senses from indulging in the perception of  objects that Allah has made unlawful for us. Indeed it is the right time  also for us to acquire the enduring good deeds and ultimately earn  forgiveness and Paradise. On this matter, Ali ibn Abu Talib (may Allah  be pleased with him) said, "fasting is not abstaining from food and  drink; rather fasting is [abstaining] from lying, falsehood and laghw  (vain and evil talk)."  In the same regard, Jabir bin Abdullah (may Allah be pleased with him)  said, "when you are fasting, all your senses: ears, eyes and tongue...  must fast with you and not lie. Let your fasting day be tranquil and  solemn and do not let your fasting day be like any normal day."   O blessed those who get the favour of Allah by dedicating their time to  recite the holy Quran, standing up for prayer at night and refraining  from obscene talk and slander. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Allah  will have mercy upon a servant who said good and won (a reward) or  stayed silent- instead of dictating evil- and emerged safe."  May Allah, the Almighty, bless for us the remaining days of Shaaban,  prolong our life to witness Ramadan, help us observe prayers, fast,  lower our gaze, protect our tongue, and recite the Quran. May Allah let  us be among His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He  has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye  who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with  authority among you." (Annisaa:59).  May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran  and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to  Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for  forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.  Second sermon  Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah,  having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is  His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace  and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family,  his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till  the Day of Judgment.  Dear Believers,
Please fear Allah and know that the true preparations for this month  should not be by stocking up heaps of food, goods and drinks. Rather  they should be through a resolute determination to engage in all that  can help us get closer to Allah. Indeed Islam has taught us how to use  resources rationally, avoid purchasing things that exceed our needs, and  focus on the necessities that help us in our fast.   The rush to buy and store supplies of food for Ramadan is contrary to  the goals of this blessed month. We should always remind ourselves that  Ramadan is for fasting during the day and standing for prayer at night.  So let us be moderate in our consumption, teach ourselves how to control  our senses and make them respond to acts of worship.  Allah, Glory be  to Him, says, "and eat and drink, but be not excessive. Indeed, He likes  not those who commit excess." (Al Aaraf:31).  Dear Muslims,  Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both  committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the  Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him  with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).  The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me  will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings  of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his  companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all  those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, with Your grace, grant us Your favour to reach the presence and  the benefits of the holy month of Ramadan.   O Allah, we seek Your  favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue  moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision,  accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and  blessed living life and progeny.  O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your  provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not  deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon  us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our  pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in  repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the  righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech  You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all  righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.  O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a  distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without  relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us  good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from  the torment of the Fire.  May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and  his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and  provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers  of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin  Zayed Al Nahyan.  O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead,  and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh  Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the late UAE Sheikhs. O  Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no  strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.  O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a  Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have  given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward  upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed  to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in  which Your Name is remembered.  We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be  grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you.  Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer  restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is  the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds)  that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













