addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The scholars, guests of HH the President, discussed the status of Zakat and the importance of honouring the ties of kinship in Islam during their daily schedule of lectures supervised by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and organised by the GAIAE. They reminded worshippers of the value of giving out Zakat, first as an obligation of the rich people towards the poor and as a financial instrument.   
Lecturers explained the Zakat provisions and its humanitarian and social benefits, saying that it is an act of solidarity aimed at combating poverty. As such, it is a unique religious duty if Muslims properly observe it and appropriately develop the investment of its proceedings. They also warned that failing to pay Zakat could prompt the poor and the needy to take on negative habits.
Zakat is brought to mention together with Salat in both the Quran and Hadith, and is listed second after Salat in books of Fiqh. As well as an act of worship, it is also an important financial resource for the Islamic state. Thus it is part and parcel of the economic system in Islam, and for this reason it has been widely discussed in the Fiqh of the Islamic finance. It had also been the first social security system in Islam as its disbursements are devoted to meeting the urgent needs of the poor, slaves, debtors and the wayfarers.
Scholars stressed that giving out Zakat to eligible groups yields great benefits to the community, and called for the able categories to compete for spending for the sake of Allah especially in Ramadan when good deeds are amply rewarded. They also called on individuals to seek data and information on the specific needs of the poor from official  authorities so that they can pay Zakat more purposefully.
The lecturing scholars also shed light on the vital necessity for the members of the community to maintain family bonds and honour ties of kinship. They explained that Muslims should benefit from this month to strengthen the bonds with their relatives, neighbours and other members of the community.
They added that Ramadan is one of the priceless opportunities for Muslims to promote communication amongst its members by engaging in Quranic recitation sessions, standing together for prayer at night, getting together over the Iftar meal, attending the congregational Salat at the mosque, among other beneficial activities.
 
 













