addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and peace and blessings be upon the Trustworthy Prophet Muhammad and upon all his family and companions. I bear witness that there is no deity except Allah, having no associates, and that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, " O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (Attawba:119).
O Believers,
Allah, may He be Glorified, has conferred upon us the holy month of Ramadan, blessed us with its days and nights and overwhelmed us with the flow of its blessings whether during  the first or the middle ten days.
As we enter the last ten days, the gem of Ramadan, we should always remember that  this month is the best time of the year for doing good and engaging in worship.  Indeed, these days and nights are the sap of this month and its fruit.
For this reason, the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to strive hard at this time of the year, more than usual. Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) reported that the Prophet (pbuh) would exert himself in worship during the last ten nights more than at any other time.
He (pbuh) would stay up at night, spending the time in prayer. It was reported that Aisha said, "when the last ten days of Ramadan came, the Prophet (pbuh) would stay up at night, wake his family and gird his loins."
The phrase "girded his loins" is a metaphor describing his preparedness to do his utmost in worship, and was also a metaphor for keeping away from worldly affairs and focusing more on worship.
Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) was more persistent in waking his family to stand up for prayer on the last ten nights of Ramadan than at other times of the year. It was reported that Ali Ibn Abu Talib (may Allah be pleased with him) said, "the Prophet (pbuh) used to wake up his family during the last ten days of Ramadan. So everyone, younger or older, would bear standing up for prayer."
O Servants of Allah,
 Among the unique merits of these great nights is Laylat Al Qadr (Decree). A blessed night as it is, Laylat Al Qadr was the time Allah, The Exalted He be, chose to send the holy Quran. About which, He, The Almighty, says, "Indeed, We sent it down during a blessed night. Indeed, We were to warn [mankind]." (Addukhan:3).
This sacred night is a flow of blessings and veneration from Allah, The Most Provident, with which to honour his servants. Allah, The Ever Exalted, says, "Indeed, We sent the Qur'an down during the Night of Decree. And what can make you know what is the Night of Decree? The Night of Decree is better than a thousand months. The angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter. Peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al Qadr).
The Surat Al Qadr came to describe this night as being better than a thousand months. It was narrated that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) was made known to him the lifespan of people before him and noticed that that of his Umma had comparatively become shorter. He therefore feared they would not be able to achieve as much good work as their predecessors did. So Allah has granted him and his Umma a night that is better than a thousand months. This Sura also shows that among the special characteristics of this night is that on this night the angels along with Gabriel (Jibreel) descend.
For its immense virtues, our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to strive formidably hard in worship on this night as it is a cause for winning Allah's forgiveness. In a Hadith agreed upon, he (pbuh) said, "whoever stays up during Laylat Al Qadr out of faith and in the hope of earning reward, all his previous sins will be forgiven."
Truly those who are honoured to engage in extensive worship on this blessed night will get full blessings. And whoever is denied its reward has been deprived all good. On the narration of Anas Ibn Malik that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "O verily this month has come upon you and it has a night better than a thousand months. Whoever is deprived of its virtue, then he has been deprived of all good. Verily he who is deprived of its virtue is deprived."
Laylat Al Qadr falls in the last ten days of Ramadan. And it is therefore recommended to strive in acts of worship during this time. It was reported from Abdullah Ibn Abbas that the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Seek the Night of Al Qadr during the last ten (nights) of Ramadan."
May Allah let us be amongst the people of acceptance and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Believers,
As to what follows, please fear Allah and be aware that the best of supplications with which to beseech Allah, may Glory to be Him, on Laylat Al Qadr,  is what our Master Muhammad (pbuh) used to say. It was reported that Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) asked the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), "O Messenger of Allah, if I knew which night is Laylat Al Qadr, what should I say during it? And he instructed her to say: 'Allahumma innaka afuwwun tuhibbu al afwa fa afu anna (O Allah, you are forgiving, and you love forgiveness. So forgive us)'."
So the best recompense one can gain on these days and nights is his Creator's forgiveness. This is mentioned by one of the righteous people when he said, "No man is wise unless seeking forgiveness is his ultimate hope from Allah."
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us,  advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness.  We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).
 
 













