addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 Praise be to Allah, The Answerer of Prayers, the Sender of Mercy. I praise Him as is befitting to His blessings and virtues. I bear witness there is no deity save Allah Alone, having no associates. He has guided us to do good things and engage in acts of worship.
I also certify that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He advised us to seek the path to Paradise and urged us to compete in order to earn highest status.
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
 O Believers,
We are on the last Friday of Ramadan, and soon we will bid farewell to this holy month which has overwhelmed us with its flow of blessings. So blessed those who have seized this opportunity in increasing acts of worship by rightly observing fast, standing up for prayer at night, reciting the holy Quran, fairly treating people and renewing their faith. They will be honoured and may also get the acceptance and forgiveness from Allah, The Most Exalted.
 Among of the virtues of Ramadan is training the self to persist in doing good acts for the rest of the year. Allah The Almighty says, "Indeed, those who have said, "Our Lord is Allah " and then remained on a right course - the angels will descend upon them, [saying], "Do not fear and do not grieve but receive good tidings of Paradise, which you were promised." (Fussilat:30).
 Indeed being consistent in doing good is the quest of the righteous and a characteristic of the pious. It is also a protection for Muslims from falling in sin and an immunity from defect. On this matter, it was reported that Sufyan Ibn Abdullah al Thaqafi said, "I said O Messenger of Allah tell something I will adhere to. He (pbuh) said, 'Say, my Lord is Allah, then stand firm'."
 Thus was the tradition of our Guide Muhammad (pbuh) for he had always been committed to good work. It was narrated that Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) said, "if he did something, he would do it consistently." In the same regard, the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "The dearest act of worship in the sight of Allah was that whose perpetrator did regularly."
 As a matter of fact, adhering to acts of worship is a recognition of Allah's blessings and His generous bounties on us. That is why our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to  stand up for prayers at nights, about which, Aisha (may Allah be pleased with her) had once asked him (pbuh): "why do you do this, while you have been forgiven of your former and latter sins?" He said, "Should I not be a grateful slave of Allah?"
Dear Muslims,
Engaging in good work is among Allah's commandments for His messengers (pbut). In this regard, Allah, may Glory be to Him, says, "O messengers, eat from the good foods and work righteousness. Indeed, I, of what you do, am Knowing." (Al Muaminun:51). It was also His commandment for His believing servants when He says, "O you who have believed, bow and prostrate and worship your Lord and do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj:77).
 Truly whoever does good deeds on regular basis will survive and will be blessed with happiness in this life and Paradise in the Hereafter, for Allah, The Most Exalted, says, "Whoever does righteousness, whether male or female, while he is a believer - We will surely cause him to live a good life, and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according to the best of what they used to do." (Annahl:97).
 In the Qudsi Hadith, Allah, the Almighty, says, "And My servant continues to draw near to me with Nawafil (supererogatory) deeds until I Love him. When I Love him, I am his hearing with which he hears, and his sight with which he sees, and his hand with which he strikes, and his foot with which he walks. Were he to ask [something] of Me, I would surely give it to him; and were he to seek refuge with Me, I would surely grant him refuge." [Related by Al Bukhari].
 Please be aware that Muslims should establish for themselves a path in this life with which to please Allah. One way to do this is by praying as many Nawafil as possible. Umm Habiba, the wife of the Apostle of Allah (pbuh), reported him as saying, if any Muslim servant (of Allah) prays for the sake of Allah twelve Rakaas (of Sunan) every day, over and above the obligatory ones, Allah will build for him a house in Paradise, or a house will be built for him in Paradise.
O Believers,
 Some of the preferred Sunan is the night vigil, even for two Rakaas every night, and optional fasting outside Ramadan for at least three days every month. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) highly recommended to us fasting six days in the month of Shawwal as he said, "He who observed the fast of Ramadan and then followed it with six (fasts) of Shawwal; it would be as if he fasted perpetually."
 O believers of Allah,
Please bear in mind also the virtues of being consistent in remembering Allah, as anyone who remembers Allah, The Almighty, he will be remembered with the Highest Chiefs, as it is mentioned in this verse: "So remember Me; I will remember you." (Al Baqara:152), and in this Qudsi Hadith: "If he remembers Me in himself, I too, remember him in Myself."
 Among the good deeds that can enlighten the life of a Muslim and be a provision for him in the next life is his praising Allah, the Most Exalted, and asking him for forgiveness by day and by night. Other acts that are equally beneficial to Muslims are reciting the holy Quran, treating parents nicely, honouring ties of kinship, helping the poor, assisting people when need be and brining joy to their hearts.
 All of these are examples of the good acts you put forward for yourselves, and whose reward you will find with Allah on the Day of Resurrection.
 May Allah let us be amongst the people of acceptance and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
 May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad (pbuh). I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 Dear Believers,
 As to what follows, please fear Allah and know that our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) instructed us to pay Zakat Al Fitr, being a compensation for any defect in fasting such as vain talks and sins. It is seen as a purification for the fasting people and condolence for the poor and the needy.
 Our Master Muhammad (pbuh) showed also to us its measure as related by Ibn Umar (may Allah be pleased with him) saying, "Allah's Apostle enjoined the payment of one Saa of dates or one Saa of barley as Zakat Al Fitr on every Muslim slave or free, male or female, young or old, and he ordered that it be paid before the people went out to offer the Eid prayer."
 It is paid out from the most common staple food in the country and can be given either in kind or in cash, as agreed by scholars. Its amount in UAE this year is determined at AED 20 and can be paid to official charities before going out to perform the Eid prayer.
 Dear Muslims,
 Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the  blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions.
 May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us, advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness. We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
 O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













