addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon

Repeating seven successive Takbirs then saying): "Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Ilaha Illa Allah, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd"  (Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, there is no deity worthy of worship but Allah, Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, to Allah all praise is due.)
Praise be to Allah, The Most Benevolent, The Most Forgiving. He has granted us His favour to reach the best of months, and promised us a great recompense for fasting and standing for voluntary night prayers. The Almighty Allah has also been generous to us with the blessing of Eid Al Fitr, which is an occasion for celebrating and recognising His bounties. I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship but Him, having no partners.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who called us to a blessed path and to a trade that will never fail. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Allah Akbar as many times as people have observed fast, voluntarily prayed, devoutedly recited the holy Quran, obediently rememberd His Name and generously spent on good cause and charity.
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd
O believers,
The sacred days and nights of the holy month of Ramadan have gone past, for which we need to give thanks to Allah, The Most Generous, on the great favours He has endowed upon us, including the completion of fasting, standing up for prayer at night, reciting the holy Quran, remembering His name and giving charity.
Now the time has come for the observers of fast to reap what they have sowed as our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "there are two joys for the fasting person: the joy when he breaks his fast, and the joy of when he meets his Lord."
On this day, angels stand on road entrances to greet servants of Allah and bring the glad tidings of His Mercy on them while they are making their way to the mosques and praising the name of Allah.
The Almighty Allah says, the meaning of which is, "Say, "In the bounty of Allah and in His mercy - in that let them rejoice; it is better than what they accumulate." (Yunus:58).
But the ultimate joy is the privilege of entering the Paradise via the Rayyan, the gate Allah has exclusively reserved for the observers of fast and with which to honour them. About it, our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "in Paradise there is a gate which is called Rayyan through which only the observers of fast would enter on the Day of Resurrection. None else would enter along with them. It would be proclaimed: where are the observers of fast that they should be admitted into it? And when the last of them would enter, it would be closed and no one would enter it."
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd
O Believers,
Among the manifestations of joy on the day of Eid Al Fitr is our gathering here for the obedience of Allah, a congregation that unifies us all for the sake of pleasing Him. Indeed, we came to remember His Name and praise his bounties on us as He has guided us to the right path and grant us success in worshipping Him. Allah says, which means, "and [wants] for you to complete the period and to glorify Allah for that [to] which He has guided you; and perhaps you will be grateful." (Al Baqara:185).
The Eid is meant to be a time of enjoyment that should extend to one's family, relatives, friends and neighbours. In this, Muslims should follow the tradition of the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh), who had been keen to spread joy and share it with his family.
Part of the Prophet's customs during Eid was returning home using a different road from the one that he took going to the place of prayer. He used to do this in order to meet different groups of his companions other than those he had come across earlier on the day.
On this matter, Abu Hurayra (may Allah be pleased with him) narrated that on the day of Eid the Prophet used to return (after offering the Eid prayer) through a way different from that by which he went.
He also used to shake hands with as many people as possible, greeting them and sharing with them their enjoyment. He would respect their yearning for expressing their happiness and celebrating the occasion. So welcome to Eid.
Addressing Abu Bakr, Muhammad (pbuh) said, "O Abu Bakr, there is an Eid for every nation and this is our Eid." His companions used to express their joy when they met on Eid by saying to each other: may Allah accept from us and you.
On this occasion, Muslims should strive to do more of the good acts by treating nicely their parents, upholding bonds of kinship, visiting neighbours and friends, spending on their families as a show of rejoice and contentment. They should also overlook their disputes with others as the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) warned us, saying, "it is not lawful for a Muslim to desert (stop talking to) his brother beyond three nights, the one turning one way and the other turning to the other way when they meet, the better of the two is one who is the first to greet the other.''
Thus settling differences between people acquires an added value on the Eid day, as Allah, The Most Exalted, says, the meaning of which is, "So fear Allah and amend that which is between you." (Anfal:1).
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd
Dear Muslims,
Eid Al Fitr is a precious opportunity for consolidating the relations amongst the members of the community and bringing assistance to the less fortunate and the needy. This is in fact the most important thing we learn from fasting. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) urged us saying, "A Muslim is a brother of another Muslim, so he should not oppress him, nor should he hand him over to an oppressor. Whoever fulfilled the needs of his brother, Allah will fulfil his needs; whoever brought his (Muslim) brother out of a discomfort, Allah will bring him out of the discomforts of the Day of Resurrection, and whoever screened a Muslim, Allah will screen him on the Day of Resurrection."
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd
May Allah, The Almighty, grant us His favour and let our hearts be overwhelmed with joy and perpetuate the intimacy and understanding among us. May He also help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar,  Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd
All praise is due to Allah as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and great virtues. I bear witness there is no deity save Allah Alone, having no associates, and I certify that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please fear Allah and know that the lessons of Ramadan should stay with us through the supererogatory fasts throughout the rest of the year. In this regard, the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "He who observed the fast of Ramadan and then followed it with six (fasts) of Shawwal; it would be as if he fasted perpetually."
It is also of Sunna to fast every Monday and Thursday, in virtue of which our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, "Deeds of people are presented (to Allah) on Mondays and Thursdays. So I like that my actions be presented while I am fasting." Moreover, The Prophet recommended we fast three days a month, about which Abu Hurayra (May Allah be pleased with him) reported: "My friend (the Messenger of Allah) (pbuh) directed me to observe fast for three days in every month, to perform two Rakaa- (optional) Duha prayer at forenoon and to perform the Witr prayer before going to bed." 
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet (pbuh) said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad (pbuh), his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us, advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness. We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire. O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).
 Note: the Eid Al Fitr prayer will be performed at 6:11 am (Abu Dhabi time).
 
 













