addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Under the supervision of the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, the GAIAE organised a lecture on the heritage value of Waqf. It was attended by HE Dr Hamadan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, the executive directors at the GAIAE, many scholars and guests as well as many people from all walks of life.
Held at the Officers' Club theatre in Abu Dhabi, the lecture was presented by HE Dr Mohammed Nouh al Qudat, the former minister of Youth and Sport in Jordan, and Prof Dr Bakr Zaki Awadh, the dean of the faculty of theology at Al Azhar University. It was moderated by Dr Ahmed al Mousa, the research and studies expert at the GAIAE.
Dr Zaki discussed the means of promoting the Waqf and highlighted the early Muslims' contribution thereof. He said that they used to give priority to building mosques and schools and sponsoring other related scientific activities. For example the Prophet's companions pbut placed many Waqfs and set a tradition that has continued to flourish since then.
Dr Zaki also compared forms of Waqf in the past and now, concluding that mosques, schools, wells and so on were the main focus . These facilities were urgently needed at that time because they were only a few of them. At present, there have emerged new societal requirements and necessities that the Waqf has to cater for. Therefore new forms of media campaigns should be in place with the aim of encouraging Waqf and creating new disbursement channels, such as for spreading religion, building modern universities, sponsoring talented students, producing serious media content, providing electronic libraries, among others.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Nouh spoke of the difference between Sadaqa (charity) and Waqf. He explained that charity is an act of social solidarity of temporary nature. Waqf, however, has long term benefits for the whole society because its assets cannot be sold or bought. Only its revenues, which normally benefit all segments of the community whether poor or rich, can be used for the purposes recommended by the donor.
Dr Nouh further explained that "the Waqf for the donor's family and offspring," can be used as a Sharia compliant form of life insurance. A business owner can, for example, reserve a portion of his wealth or a number of stocks as a Waqf for his family members as a safe net for them in the future from life hazards.
On another note, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, proposes the establishment of a Waqf bank as an organisation that can invest, lend and assist individuals and businesses, especially that banks have diversified its products and services. His proposal has been welcomed by many attendees and scholars, who recommended carrying out further studies on its feasibility.
For his part, the scholar Hamza Yusuf highlighted the role of the Waqf in the modern time saying, "Europe learnt the benefits of the Islamic Waqf in the community through its campaigns to the Muslim World.  When they came back they spread this culture in their homelands, a tradition that laid down the foundation for the European scientific renaissance. For their part, the Americans followed in the path of their European counterparts and promoted endowments. Now many would say that America is an endowment country par excellence. There exist now more than 40 think-thank centres, including the Harvard University, the latter, for example, has a total endowment  of about USD 40 billion (AED 147 billion). Many high schools also have large endowment assets valuing more than a billion dollar for each."
Mr Yusuf and Mr Mansour al Rifaei, the former undersecretary of the Awqaf Ministry in Egypt, raised the concern about reviving the role of the Waqf in boosting development and progress. One way to do this is by investing endowments' revenues in many fields that can help restore the scientific and industrial renaissance of Muslims.
 













