addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE honoured the winners of the Holy Quran contest for this year in which about 1000 contenders had taken part. Held at the Officers' Club Theatre in Abu Dhabi, the awarding ceremony was attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's director general, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Court, many scholars, guests of HH the President in Ramadan, parents and many people from all walks of life.
 The contest consisted of five categories: the memorisation of the whole Quran, 20 parts, 10 parts, five parts and three parts. After a series of qualifiers, 170 participants had made it to the final competition and the top three from each category were awarded medals of excellence. As for those who obtained grades above 90, they were presented with certificates of appreciation and incentive gifts.
The awarding ceremony opened with the recitation of verses from the Holy Quran by one of the winners, Abbas Abdul Annour, from Umm Al Quwain and featured a documentary film about the memorisation centres.  Other memorisers also recited some verses whose performance received wide appreciation from the audience, an evidence of the great role the Quranic centres play in the UAE society.
There are 50 centres and about 500 memorisation cycles with about 22000 registered students.
In a speech during the ceremony, Dr al Kaabi said, "the wise UAE leadership gives special attention to get  the youth memorise the Quran and understand its meanings. The late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, was the leader in establishing Quran centres all over the UAE. The results of his good work are clearly seen and felt today through these young students and memorisers.
"May Allah reward his good deeds. May Allah also grant success to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, for their relentless support to the memorisation centres and their students, local and international contestants."  
At the end of the ceremony, HE Dr al Mazrouei also awarded the winners, the members of the jury and organising committees, the outstanding teachers in the memorisation centres, the administrative staff and the best memorisation institute.
 













