addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon

All praise is due to Allah. I pay tribute to Him as is befitting to His glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners.
 
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, the meaning of which is, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah . Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara:281).
O Believers,
Our topic today is about altruism, being one of the perfect manners that Islam promotes and which comes to distinguish Muslims from others. It is thus amongst the highest form of human morality, for it enables people to overcome their desires as a show of obedience to Allah. The finest sense of altruism is to put the love for Allah above one's inclinations and personal pursuits.
Altruism was also one of the behaviours that characterised our Prophet Muhammad pbuh. His wife Aisha (my Allah be satisfied with her) attested to this by saying, "if we wished to fully appease our hunger, we could have done so. But the Prophet Muhammad pbuh chose to be altruistic."
The way he cared for the poor by giving them priority over his family though it was in privation, our Master Muhammad pbuh had set a good example for us to follow. He would tell his family: "I cannot give you while the people of Suffa (poor migrants who used to live by Al Masjid Al Nabawi-the Mosque of the Prophet in Medina- on an external shaded settee that was attached to it) are suffering from hunger."
Dear Muslims,
He pbuh had also urged his companions to be altruistic in all of their conditions by overcoming the pressing feeling of selfishness and being generous. In this regard, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "He who has an extra mount should give that to one who has no mount for him, and he who has surplus of provisions should give them to him who has no provisions, and he made mention of so many kinds of wealth until we were of the opinion that none of us has any right over the surplus."
Such a blessed quality had marked the behaviours of the Prophet's companions when the Ansar sponsored their fellow Muhajireen (immigrants) by offering them money, land and shelter. In return Allah has praised their action as He says, meaning, "But give [them] preference over themselves, even though they are in privation. And whoever is protected from the stinginess of his soul - it is those who will be the successful." (Al Hashr:9).
Generosity had thus become the true character of the Prophet's companions who were formidably self-motivated to provide help. It was narrated that a person came to Allah's Messenger pbuh and said, "I am hard pressed by hunger." He [pbuh] sent (message) to one of his wives (to procure food for him). But she said, "By Him Who has sent you with Truth, there is nothing with me (to serve him) but only water." He then sent the (same) message to another, and she gave the same reply, until all of them gave the same reply: by Him Who has sent thee with the Truth, there is nothing with me but only water, whereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said, "Allah would show mercy to him who will entertain this guest tonight."  A person from the Ansar stood up and said, " Messenger of Allah, I (am ready to entertain)." He took him to his house and said to his wife, "is there anything with you (to serve the guest)? She said, "no, but only a subsistence for our children." He said, "distract their attention with something, and when the guest enters extinguish the lamp and give him the impression that we are eating." So they sat down and the guest had his meal. When it was morning he went to Allah's Apostle pbuh who said, "Allah was well pleased with what you both did for your guest this night."
This is a good example of altruism and how a family, though in need, chose to offer the very little food it had to the guest sent by the Prophet pbuh. O blessed such an attitude and whoever has it, for it is a cause for winning the greatest of all rewards: the Paradise. About it, one of the righteous people said, "The dowry of Paradise is weaning the self off desires, and preferring the love of Allah over yourself."
O Muslims, 
To acquire altruism, Muslims should believe in what with Allah, the Most Exalted, is better than what they have. They should also believe that whatever they have sacrificed for the sake of Allah, He, the Almighty, will compensate them for it manyfold. On this account, Allah may Glory be to Him,  said, "But whatever thing you spend [in His cause] - He will compensate it; and He is the best of providers." (Sabaa39).
If Allah, the Most Exalted, has praised those who are generous, He, however, has condemned those, who shun sacrificing things and follow their whims to the detriment of obedience to Allah. In this respect, He, the Almighty said, which means, "So as for he who transgressed, and preferred the life of the world, then indeed, Hellfire will be [his] refuge. But as for he who feared the position of his Lord and prevented the soul from [unlawful] inclination, then indeed, Paradise will be [his] refuge." (Annaziaat:37-41).
He also says, meaning, "But you prefer the worldly life, while the Hereafter is better and more enduring." (Al Ala:16-17). May Allah help us to put forth what He prefers over what we prefer and help us also to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
As to what follows, please obey Allah and know that altruism purifies the soul and protects it from unlawful inclinations. Therefore, it stands as the opposite of selfishness, and is one of the most acclaimed acts of piety. About it, Allah, the Most Exalted says, the meaning of which is, "And cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al Maida:2). Moreover, altruism is one of the good deeds that pleases Allah and an evidence of love for Him.
Verily, the tree of love and charity is nurtured by such acts of generosity, altruism, and good manners. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh praised some of his companions for their special altruistic attitudes, particularly at calamities. He said, "When the people of Ashaari tribe ran short of food during the holy battles, or the food of their families in Medina ran short, they would collect all their remaining food in one sheet and then distribute it among themselves equally by measuring it with a bowl. So, these people are from me, and I am from them."
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, beneficial knowledge, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
O Allah, increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us, honour us and do not disgrace us, give us and do not deprive us, advocate us and do not disfavour us. O Allah, bestow upon us Your satisfaction and grant us self-content. O Allah, make piety our pursuit, solidify our faith and increase our wisdom.
O Allah, we seek Your mercy and forgiveness. We turn to You in repentance, put our hope and trust in You to guide us to do the righteous actions and accept our supplications to You. We also beseech You to confer on us safety from every sin, and booty of all righteousness, and to win Paradise and deliverance from the Hellfire.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord! Grant us good in this world and good in the life to come and keep us safe from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, grant the favour of Your forgiveness to whoever have donated a Waqf to benefit Your servants and bless the wealth of whoever have given Zakat. We beseech You to bestow Your forgiveness and great reward upon who built this mosque, his parents and anyone who have contributed to it with good deeds. O Allah, forgive anyone who built a mosque in which Your Name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













