addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE Foreign Minister, attended on August 7, 2012, the "Night of Loyalty to Sheikh Zayed", held at the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque on the anniversary of the death of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who passed away on 19th day of Ramadan, 1425 Hijri, corresponding to November 2, 2004. A host of scholars and senior officials from the GAIAE across UAE attended the event, which is organised by the Awqaf under the supervision of  the Ministry of Presidential Affairs.
Also present were HH Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, the Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research, ministers, scholars, the guests of the President, senior officials, and a large number of public, nationals and expatriates, who came from all over the UAE.
HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the GAIAE's chairman, opened the ceremony by paying tribute to the late Sheikh Zayed, the founding father of the UAE, and praying to Allah  to rest his soul in peace and make the Paradise his eternal abode. He also supplicated to Allah to protect and grant success to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Addressing the audience, Dr al Mazrouei said, "Some of the blessings of Allah, the Most Exalted, on us is that He has endowed us with leaders whom we do admire and who admire us. They have always been generous to us, and we shall remain always loyal to them. We also  praise Allah for he granted this country such a leader as Sheikh Zayed, who had loved his people and in return they loved him. He perfectly fit the description of our Prophet Muhammad: "the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke God's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them.".
He added saying, " Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in  peace, said, 'our faith in the Union emanates from our Arab and Muslim history (and tradition). Islam has brought Arabs together under one banner and made them one strong block that was the key to open up hearts and enlighten minds with faith and knowledge. The same force has also gifted to the world a pioneering civilisation, whose fruit is still benefitting the whole humanity'.
"This occasion is a moment for reflection and for us to renew our determination to give and work. Today we are highlighting the merits of a humanitarian leader who goes down in history as someone who strived hard to raise the status of his people and give priority to build citizens and care for them. Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, said, 'citizens are the wealth of this land and its core assets, for no growth or progress can be achieved without qualified human resources capable of building the nation.'
"As a matter of fact, the progress and prosperity that UAE is enjoying today is the result of the efficient investment in building the UAE citizens, who have sought knowledge and learning in renowned universities, acquired highest skill levels and succeeded in various fields. These efforts bring into mind the Hadith saying: knowledge is an obligation on every Muslim."
Dr al Mazrouei also spoke of loyalty saying, "this requires of us all to renew our allegiance to our wise leaders, who have spared no effort to achieve happiness for citizens and have strengthened the bonds of harmony between the people and the leadership. With the best services they offer to their people and nation, the UAE has topped the index for happiness and  satisfaction amongst people in the Arab world."
Prof Dr Hamada described the late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, as a wise leader who had unified hearts and minds around him to found the nation and draw the basis for a great civilisation.
He said, "what we are witnessing and enjoying today is the fruit of his achievements that adorn a world of goodness he had created. Thanks to Allah, Sheikh Zayed had left no house, whether far or nearby, without he brought in welfare for its dwellers. He also provided assistance to the poor and needy, hence setting a formidable example of giving... So we have gathered here today to inspire by and learn from his tradition, which will be getting brighter day after day under the UAE prudent leadership."
The Muslim scholar Hamza Yusuf spoke of Sheikh Zayed from the perspective of "Zayed in the eyes of the world", saying that wherever one can go, he can easily notice some traces of Sheikh Zayed's good work, be it a mosque, an Islamic centre, a housing project, or wells. He added that everybody agrees that Sheikh Zayed was a leader that had fairly treated people, showed genuine intentions and demonstrated a great determination for creating development.
He also recalled some of his meetings with Sheikh Zayed after his conversion to Islam in Al Ain, where he came to learn Arabic. He concluded his speech with a poem that enumerated the merits and virtues of the late Sheikh Zayed.
Yusuf Ali, one of the successful businessmen in UAE, praised the support of Sheikh Zayed to foreign communities, and said that this practice is still continuing under the present leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
At the end of the ceremony, students from the holy Quran memorisation centres recited short Suras and the supplication of sealing the Quran in memory of the late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
In Al Ain, Sheikh Hazza bin Tahnoon Al Nahyan, the Chairman at the Diwan of the Ruler's Representative in the Eastern Region, attended a similar ceremony organised by the GAIAE at the Suhail bin Awaidhah Mosque al Khubaili in the area of Zakher in al Ain. Among the attendees were Mr Hamad bin Awaidhah and many scholars, the guests of HH the UAE President, officials from the GAIAE, as well as many people from all walks of life.
Mr Sultan al Neyadi, the head of the Islamic Affairs at the GAIAE's branch in Al Ain, delivered a speech in which he gave an overview of the merits of Sheikh Zayed and prayed to Allah, the Almighty, to bestow His Mercy on him and make the Paradise his eternal abode.
Mr al Neyadi also renewed allegiance to HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, and Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
At the end of the ceremony in Al Ain, Dr Ammar Ibrahim, a senior preacher at the GAIAE, delivered a speech, highlighting the virtues of late Sheikh Zayed.
In Ras Al Khaimah, a ceremony in memory of Sheikh Zayed was held by the GAIAE's branch in the Emirate in the Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Al Qawasim Corniche. The participants remembered Sheikh Zayed's merits and his leading role in founding the nation and providing for the means that have enabled it to be amongst the developed countries worldwide and in all fields.
 
 













