addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum visited the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) in Abu Dhabi and reviewed its initiatives, strategies and activities in spreading the tolerant teachings of Islam.
HH Sheikh Mohammed was briefed by the GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, about the activities carried out by the Awqaf with the aim of promoting its mission to instil the values of tolerance and moderation.
In a meeting with senior officials at the GAIAE, he also reviewed its strategy for mosques, the development of their personnel, Haj and Umra as well as its efforts in the Waqf investment. According to the presentations made, the GAIAE has more than 4000 employees representing 11 branches all over the country.
HH Sheikh Mohammed further reviewed the Awqaf's Emiratisation strategy for hiring UAE nationals as Imams and Muezzins to serve the country's 4750 mosques. Part of this initiative is the compilation of a booklet destined to mosques' personnel, which explains their various tasks and responsibilities.
The GAIAE also offers training session in oration skills for the UAE nationals studying Sharia, who are selected for the programme based on a strict criteria. This is because of the great social responsibility that the preacher should take as he contributes to shaping the public's awareness and guiding people to the right religious practices.
The presentations also shed light on the GAIAE's drive to unify the broadcasting of the Friday prayer and sermon on all of the UAE satellite channels. One more media platform Awqaf is using to disseminate social awareness is mosque display screens, which provide important postings of religious information of interest to worshippers.
Speaking about its efforts to help non-Arabic speaking Muslims to better understand their religion, HE Dr al Mazrouei mentioned that the Friday sermon is translated in English and Urdu and delivered in more than 65 mosques around the country.
After that, HH Sheikh Mohammed and the delegation accompanying him inspected one of the Awqaf's model Quran memorisation centres. There are 53 model centre in the UAE. There he met a group of young learners, boys and girls, registered in the centre and listened to their recitation. It is worth mentioning that the GAIAE's Quran centres hold about 450 memorisation cycles across the country benefitting more than 13500 students, UAE nationals and expatriates.
During his visit, HH Sheikh Mohammed also toured the Official Fatwa Centre at the GAIAE where he was briefed about the distinguished services it offers to the public over the phone, via SMS, and online, which enables individuals to send religious queries through an online form (Al Murshid Al Amin) available on the Awqaf website. The Centre is served by 40 certified Muftis.
He was also briefed on the GAIAE's keen interest to organise and control the Fatwa issuance in the community by unifying the source and reference of its delivery. This ensures the credibility of the Fatwa and prevents the improvisation of religious opinions that can be invalid. The centre issues about 1200 to 1300 Fatwas over the phone per day, while this  number may reach up to 3000 in Ramadan.
HH Sheikh Mohammed met also with a host of Islamic scholars and preachers and exchanged Ramadan greetings with them. He commended their role in guiding the public to the right path, especially at this fast changing time. He also praised their efforts in promoting messages of fraternity, amity and tolerance.   
At the conclusion of his visit, HH Sheikh Mohammed expressed his satisfaction with the efforts undertaken by the GAIAE to serve Muslims and Islam, stressing the vital importance of its mission in maintaining and promoting Waqf for it is an efficient means to build the society and boost solidarity amongst the individuals. He also praised the special care the Awqaf gives to mosques all over the UAE.
 
 













