addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The official Haj delegation's (OHD) inspection committee flew last week to the Holy Places to check the quality of the rented accommodations by operators in Mecca for this year's Haj season. The aim of the visit was to make sure these housing units comply with the specifications and health requirements set by the GAIAE and agreed to by Haj operators.
Chaired by Mr Obeid Hamad al Zaabi, the OHD's deputy head, the committee comprised a team of inspectors, who would work from the OHD's offices in Mecca, both in the morning and evening.
Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the head of the official Haj delegation, lauded the unlimited support received from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Mr al Mazrouei also highlighted the keen interest of the wise UAE leadership in all of the pilgrims' affairs whether before they set off for Haj, while they are there or when they come back. The UAE leadership follows up closely the pilgrims' affairs and issue the necessary instructions aiming at providing them maximum comfort and convenience so they can perform their pilgrimage in the best of conditions, he said.
On this occasion, Mr al Mazrouei urged the Haj operators or their representatives to be physically present in the Holy Places during the inspection period and provide their campaign licences and certificates of registration. He also called upon them to get in touch with inspectors before Haj to receive and implement their remarks, if any.
He said that any Haj campaign, whose official or representative fail to attend during this time without a legal justification, will be suspended this year, while the pilgrims registered with it will be assigned to other campaigns.
Both GAIAE and the OHD urged pilgrims to register with accredited Haj operators only so as to ensure their full rights in the event of any disagreement or breach of contract. In this case the OHD can intervene and force the contravening operator to meet the terms agreed upon and act in accordance to the regulations governing the Haj services.
 













