addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I pay tribute to Him as is befitting to His glorious presence and His great sovereignty and virtues. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, the meaning of which is, "And fear Allah. And Allah teaches you. And Allah is Knowing of all things." (Al Baqara:282).
O Believers,
Knowledge is the cornerstone of any nation and the vital precursor to much of its progress and prosperity. In fact hardly can any nation reach a highest status without taking on learning and enlightenment or without seeking excellence in them. Allah the Almighty says, meaning "Are those who know equal to those who do not know?" Only they will remember [who are] people of understanding." (Azzumar:9).
Islam has given great importance to learning, for which it has advised people to seek its path as He, the Most exalted says, which means, "Recite in the name of your Lord who created. Created man from a clinging substance. Recite, and your Lord is the most Generous . Who taught by the pen. Taught man that which he knew not." (Al Alaq:1-5). Moreover, Allah, the Glory may be to Him, swears by the means of knowledge in reference to the importance of writing and documenting it, for He says, meaning, "Nun. By the pen and what they inscribe," (Al Qalam:1). Likewise, Islam has held in high esteem scholars and students as this verse says, meaning: "Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Mujadala:11).
The areas of knowledge that Islam has called upon us to pursue would include any beneficial science that leads to development and progress and contributes to the well-being of humanity. About the virtues of learning, our Master Muhammad pbuh he said, "he who treads the path in search of knowledge, Allah would make that path easy, leading to Paradise for him." This means every single discipline of knowledge a Muslim is pursuing in the way of Allah is a cause for him to receive rewards.
Dear Muslims,
As we are entering a new school year, all of us must strive hard to make it a success because no educational system can prosper without the contribution of all members of the community. Because of its beneficial outcome to humanity, we should support means of attaining knowledge with the aim of producing learned generations that will continue the march of progress and prosperity. However, our sons and daughters, for their part, need to assume this responsibility and rise up to the situation. 
Thus students should evoke good faith while they are engaged in learning and bear in mind that they are doing this to benefit, not only themselves but also their nation. They should also know that the reward they will get will be as much as their intentions are. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "verily actions are (judged) according to intentions, and for every person will be what he intended."
One key to pursue knowledge and bear its burden is patience, without which students can hardly reap the fruits of learning and its benefits. The story of the Prophet Musa (Moses) with the god servant brings some light into this. Allah, the most Exalted says, the meaning of which, "Moses said to him, "May I follow you on [the condition] that you teach me from what you have been taught of sound judgement? He said, "Indeed, with me you will never be able to have patience. And how can you have patience for what you do not encompass in knowledge?" [Moses] said, "You will find me, if Allah wills, patient, and I will not disobey you in [any] order." (Al Kahf:66-69).
On this account, we need to invoke the example of our predecessors, known for their stamina and patience. They have devoted their time in seeking knowledge and went through so much hardship to this end. We need also to be open-minded, tolerant and most importantly modest. These are among the praised qualities of knowledge seekers, as one of the scholars said, "Knowledge is not learned by a timorous person or an arrogant person." Bearing this in mind, we would always love to see our students follow in the same path, embrace the best of principles and behaviour and show due respect to their teachers and mentors.
 O Servants of Allah,
For their part, teachers have a great role to play in preparing future generations by nurturing their minds, refining their behaviours, identifying and developing the talents inherent in them.  Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "Some people will come to you seeking knowledge, so if you happen to see them then tell them that they are welcomed as per the Prophet's will and teach them."
With this in mind we seek Allah's favour to help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah  and be aware that parents have a big responsibility regarding their children's learning and development. As well as providing the necessary  school supplies, parents' duty calls also for guiding their children, monitoring their behaviour and watching over the peers with whom they interact. Furthermore, they need to provide a good environment that is conducive to studying and learning.
Parents have thus a major responsibility over their children's education and welfare, for, indeed, there is nothing better they can pass on to their sons and daughters than good manners. Teachers can also be a partner in this process by helping young students adopt the best conducts and ethics. The prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Indeed Allah will question everyone who is responsible about His charge, whether he has preserved it or lost it, until He will question him about his family (dependents)."
On this occasion, we would like to remind you all and especially motorists to abide by the traffic rules, respect road manners and maintain order while students get on and off their school buses. Following these rules will assure us that our little ones are safe enough in their daily journey to and from school.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













