addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 

First sermon
 
All praise is due to Allah, the Self-Sufficient, the Ever-Forgiving. He has made walking to His Houses a guiding light for Muslims on the day in which the hearts and eyes will fearfully turn about (in reference to the Day of Judgment).
I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, the meaning of which is, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah . Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara:281).
O Believers,
Mosques are the shelter of believers and home for the pious. To them the worshippers' hearts attach and therein Muslims devote themselves to Dhikr as Allah, the Almighty, says, the meaning of which, "[Such niches are] in mosques which Allah has ordered to be raised and that His name be mentioned therein; exalting Him within them in the morning and the evenings men whom neither commerce nor sale distracts from the remembrance of Allah and performance of prayer and giving of Zakat." (Annur:36-37).
Allah, the Most Exalted, has made mosques a place of return and security for people. From their minarets rises higher the name of Allah, the Almighty, and from every part therein beam the goodly word and work. Also in the mosques Quran is recited and the Prophet's Hadiths and tradition are taught.
As well as for Salat and Dhikr, Muslims came also for receiving beneficial knowledge and increasing their understanding, when for example they listen to Friday Khutba every week. As such, they are among those who respond to the call of Allah, meaning: "O you who have believed, when [the Adhan] is called for the prayer on the day of Jumuaa [Friday], then proceed to the remembrance of Allah and leave trade. That is better for you, if you only knew." (Al Jumaa:9).
Indeed mosques are blessed and pure houses about which our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "The dearest parts on the face of the earth near Allah are its mosques."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Mosques have virtues of their own which Muslims have to be aware of. One of such merits is that Allah, may Glory be to Him, multiplies His reward for those who walk their way to the mosque. It was narrated that Banu Salama decided to shift near the mosque. This (news) reached the Messenger of Allah pbuh and he said to them (Banu Salama), "I have received (information) that you intend to shift near the mosque. They said, "yes, Messenger of Allah, we have taken this decision. Upon this Muhammad pbuh said, "O Banu Salama, live in your houses, for your steps are recorded; live in your houses, for your steps are recorded."
Indeed, Muslims will get due recompense for every step they do for their comings and goings to and from the mosque. So whoever does ablution and heads to the house of Allah for attending a congregational prayer, Allah will double his good deeds and cross out his misdeeds as many steps as he has walked.
The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "If any one of you performs ablution and performs it very well, and goes out for prayer, he does not take his right step but Allah records a good work (or blessing) for him, and he does not take his left step but Allah remits one sin from him. Any one of you may reside near the mosque or far from it; if he comes to the mosque and prays in congregation, he will be forgiven (by Allah). If he comes to the mosque while the people had prayed in part, and the prayer remained in part, and he prays in congregation the part he joined, and completed the part he had missed, he will enjoy similarly (i.e. he will be forgiven). If he comes to the mosque when the people had finished prayer, he will enjoy the same."
Keenness to observe Salat in time highlights the fact that it is one of the most honourable acts of Taqwa (obedience to Allah), for our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "prayer followed by a prayer with no idle talk between the two is recorded in Illiyyun." The Hadith illustrates also the highly praised attitude of the pious worshipper who always readies himself for the next prayer. 
Dear Muslims,
There is no doubt that mosques enjoy a high status, a reason for which we must duly venerate them and ensure their best maintenance. On this account, our Guide Muhammad pbuh instructed us to establish mosques in the same places where homes are built, not to mention keeping them neat, clean and perfumed. After all, a well-kept place pleases the heart and soul.
For the same reason, Muslims should clean up and dress up neatly before going to the mosque. They can do this by observing an attire, which must reveal no part of their bodies that may invalidate prayer, especially when performing Rukua (bowing) and Sujud (prostration). They are also advised to wear perfume and clean their mouth by using Siwak (a teeth cleaning twig). Allah, the Most Exalted says, the meaning of which, "O children of Adam, take your adornment at every Masjid." (Al Araf:31). This is further evidenced by this Hadith: "When someone among you offers Salat, he should wear two garments as Allah is most deserving you should adorn for,"  in reference to Muslims standing before Allah for prayer.
Another dimension of the mosques' etiquettes is avoiding stepping over people's necks while worshippers are waiting for the congregational prayer. It was reported that the Prophet Muhammad pbuh was delivering Khutba when a man came stepping over the people's necks, and the Messenger of Allah said, "sit down you are disturbing people."
Muslims should likewise be careful that no repulsive smells come out from their bodies or clothes for fear of harming others. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "He who eats onion and garlic and leek, should not approach our mosque for the angels are harmed by the same things as the children of Adam."
Last but not least, Muslims should not disturb other worshippers or cause them to impair their concentration in prayer. This is the case when, for example, mobile phones are left on, which can produce loud sounds.  The Prophet Muhammad pbuh warned people who do so saying, "Lo! every one of you is calling his Lord quietly. One should not trouble the other and one should not raise the voice in recitation or in prayer over the voice of the other."
Bearing this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to help us to observe prayers in congregation and attend Jumaa. May Allah help us also to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that venerating mosques requires of Muslims to avoid delving into falsehood and provoking passions, among others. This is because mosques are unique places of worship and admired as such, as the Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "[mosques] are only for the remembrance of Allah, prayer and the recitation of the Quran."
To further promote these ethics, Muslims are advised to educate their children about them, by accompanying those who have reached the age of discerning and introducing them to how to offer acts of worship and behave in the houses of Allah.  It is recommended that parents should seat their children beside them out of respect for the mosque and watch over their behaviour so as not to play around or disturb worshippers.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













