addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, inaugurated a child nursery at the Awqaf's premises in Abu Dhabi. The opening ceremony was attended by the GAIAE's director general, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the GAIAE's executive directors as well as heads of departments and a host of parents.
Touring the new facility, Dr al Mazrouei extended his deep gratitude to the prudent UAE leaders for their special interest in providing an environment conducive to employees to perform well and contribute to growth and progress.
On the occasion he highlighted the continuous support the Awqaf is receiving from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
In a statement, Dr al Mazrouei said, "the inauguration of this child nursery is part of the Awqaf's strategic plan approved by the Cabinet and its operational programme for this year.  The Awqaf is implementing the UAE leadership and spares no efforts to boost productivity and performance. To achieve this objective, it employs all available scientific and technical means and focuses on the employees' satisfaction, the latter being the basis for improving the work process."
He further explained that the new nursery had been established according to the Ministry of Social Services' requirements and specifications relative to safety and security, adding that it is well-organised and meets the educational and recreational needs of children.  
The GAIAE has recently done some refurbishment in the hosting building to fit this purpose, including the installation of air purifiers all around the nursery, coating the wall edges with cork barriers, among others. It also set a system of receiving and handing over children to their parents.
Female staff at the GAIAE said they were happy to have this nursery near their working place where to place their little children under the care of experienced educators. Now we are much relieved and this helped us increase our performance in work, they said. On this occasion they extended their sincere thanks to the UAE wise leadership and to the GAIAE's officials.













