addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
 

All praise is due to Allah as is befitting to Him. I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Allah Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger.
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, the meaning of which is, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
O Believers, 
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh is the best amongst humans in manners and merits, regarding which Allah, the Almighty says, which means "And indeed, you are of a great moral character." (Al Qalam: 4). Describing himself, the Prophet said, "I shall be pre-eminent among the descendants of Adam and that is not a matter of personal pride."
About his noble characters, his wife Khadija, may Allah be satisfied with her, once told him "never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones."
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh earned his reputation thanks to such a great disposition he had toward people and his agreeable characters. He was also known for his jolly mood, generosity and leniency. Moreover, he was neither rude in speech nor harsh in heart, and with such a brave attitude he would not turn away from a right, nor would he oppress any.
Truthful and trustworthy as he was, he was also endowed with other virtues, some of which were mentioned by his wife Aisha, may Allah be satisfied with her. When she was asked about his character in his house, she acknowledged his good manners saying, "he was the best of people in character; he neither swore nor was obscene; he did not make a clamour in the markets, and did not return bad with its like, but he would pardon and forgive."
As a Messenger and bearer of a Message, the Prophet Muhammad pbuh belonged to a noble family, about which he said, "Verily Allah granted eminence to Kinana from amongst the descendants of Ismail and he granted eminence to the Quraish amongst Kinana and he granted eminence to the Quraish amongst Banu Hashim and he granted me eminence from the tribe of Banu Hashim."
No wonder then that those who spoke justly throughout history had allied themselves with Allah's description of His Messenger. One of the endorsements came from a modern thinker, Michael Hart, who wrote a book titled The 100: a Ranking of the Most Influential Persons in History in which he said, "My choice of Muhammad to lead the list of the world's most influential persons may surprise some readers and may be questioned by others, but he was the only man in history who was supremely successful on both the religious and secular level."
Unfortunately, history also brought news of some who had intended to harm the Prophet pbuh and tarnish his reputation, by accusing him, at times, he was a magician, and at others insane. But each time, Allah, the Most Exalted stood by his Messenger and defended him. Allah the Almighty says, the meaning of which, "Indeed, We are sufficient for you against the mockers." (Al Hijr: 95). In response to those who abused Muhammad pbuh, Allah, the Most Exalted, also says, meaning "Indeed, your enemy is the one cut off." (Al Kawthar: 3).
All in all, neither the smearing campaigns, nor the abuse toward the person of the Prophet has ever hurt or undermined his status. Rather His Creator has raised his station higher and made his message eternal, whereas He eclipsed those who opposed him.
Dear Muslims,
It was very painful to see and hear what has been reported in some media of a film ridiculing the person of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh and his message. Yet those ill-disposed people behind it can hardly damage his reputation, for he is a dignified person like no other and he will always remain so. As good and evil have different labels, those who produced the infamous film have clearly revealed to what extent they harbour rancour and hatred. And they did this primarily in order to provoke Muslims and sow discord between them and others. Their ultimate aim is therefore to put Muslims in a situation to blame and distort the true image of Islam and Muslims.
However aggrieved and surprised we are by this assault, we should not respond to it but consistently with the good manners of our Prophet Muhammad pbuh. This calls for us to rise above it and avoid acting the way it may serve such malicious plots aiming for political and personal gains. In this, our Prophet pbuh stands as a role model for us. He said, "Doesn't it astonish you how Allah protects me from the Quraish's abusing and cursing? They abuse Mudhammam and curse Mudhammam while I am Muhammad."
But what happened recently was not something that should absolve the governments and state authorities from enforcing its laws concerning the protection of religious symbols or drawing regulations to prevent similar abusive acts from recurring. On this occasion, we would like to commend the non-Muslims who showed a rational attitude and denounced such heinous acts.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Facing with this situation, it is our duty to emphasise our love for the Prophet Muhammad pbuh and commitment to his message and Sunna. For this purpose, let us raise our children in the love of the Prophet pbuh and guide them to follow in his footsteps by teaching them about the message of Islam and its lofty principles. We also need to introduce them to the fact that Islam is a religion of morality that rises above violence, calls for compassion and peace and defends sanctities.
Scholars, teachers, media outlets, poets, writers and thinkers together have a role to play in giving the true image about the Prophet pbuh and his tolerant message.
Bearing this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and know that no matter how malevolent people had offended Allah's Messenger or forced him to give up his religion, Allah the most Exalted always intervened and help him to endure hard times. What is more, Allah the Almighty has promised the message of Islam will eternally survive and spread far and wide, saying, the meaning of which, "They want to extinguish the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah refuses except to perfect His light, although the disbelievers dislike it. It is He who has sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth to manifest it over all religion, although they who associate others with Allah dislike it." (Al Thawba:23-33).
In the same regard, Muhammad pbuh said, "This matter will keep spreading as far as the night and day reach, until Allah will not leave a house made of mud or hair, but will make this religion enter it, while bringing might to a mighty person (a Muslim) and humiliation to a disgraced person (who rejects Islam)."
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. 
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).













