addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, presided over the fourth workshop for Awqaf branch directors, which was held at the GAIAE headquarters in Abu Dhabi and attended by the GAIAE's director general, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, as well as the executive and branch directors.
At the outset of the meeting, Dr al Mazrouei praised the invaluable support from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and the Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Dr al Mazrouei then highlighted the crucial role of the Friday Khutba for being an opportunity for interacting with the public and the remarkable evolution it has witnessed in terms of topics, ideas, duration and writing. For the same, he pointed to the positive feedback from the community members, who consider the Khutba and the topics it raises relevant and timely.
To ensure the continuous improvement of the Khutba, Dr al Mazrouei called upon the Branch directors to examine the remarks from individuals and take suitable actions related thereto. He also urged them to communicate electronically with members of the community and inform them about the measures taken.
He also mentioned that the workshop had agreed on giving the initiative for outstanding preachers across UAE to suggest other relevant topics besides the unified Khutba and encouraging them to improvise Khutbas in accordance with the standards set by the GAIAE. This includes such requirements as observing objectivity and a maximum delivery time of 30 minutes, among others.
For this purpose, Dr al Mazrouei said that the GAIAE would organise more training sessions to increase the skills and competencies of preachers, explaining that the branch directors will draw and implement a plan for developing the Friday Khutba and continuously monitoring the preachers' performance.
Other points on the agenda were a progress report on the Mafhas Al Qatat project (a programme for building mosques under the supervision of Awqaf), the need for staff in memorisation centres, annual publications, in addition to various topics of relevance.
 













