addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE's website (www.awqaf.gov.ae) won the Golden and Strategic 2012 E-Government Web Awards offered by the Pan Arab Web Award Academy (PAWAA) at the level of UAE in the category of governmental entities and official authorities.
At a ceremony honouring the winners held recently in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt,  Pierre Moukarzel, chairman of the Academy for Internet Awards in the Arab region and Dr Rifaat al Faouri, the director general of the Arab Administrative Development Organisation (AADO) presented the two awards to Mariam Rashid al Braiki, the IT department director at the GAIAE.
For the second successive time the Awqaf's website received a similar recognition from the Pan Arab Award Academy and AADO. The first time was in 2011 when it won the Technological Innovation Prize in the same category.
On this occasion, the GAIAE's chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, said that he was proud of the success achieved by the Awqaf's web portal, which will promote the competitive edge of the UAE as an active e-government player.
"These awards will further strengthen our confidence to increase efforts to upgrade the GAIAE's website for greater efficiency and excellence. They came also to consolidate the previous awards obtained and translate the instructions of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE president, and the vision of his deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, their Highness rulers of the Emirates, members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, May Allah protect them all," Dr al Mazrouei said.
He added saying, "Our wise leadership has adopted technology in interacting with the community and supported efforts aimed at boosting progress, development and modernisation in all fields, including the e-government."
The importance of these Prizes lies also in the role they play in promoting the development of online communication by awarding government entities that have built web portals of international standards, which ensure easy access to services and information for citizens and residents across the Arab world.
To further promote the role of the Awqaf's website in interacting with the community, new sections and applications will be added as part of the IT work plan. The new e-services will be announced during Gitex Dubai 2012.
The awards are a continuation of other achievements this year, namely the launch of the Arabic domain name of the Awqaf's website, typed in Arabic script: (Awqaf.emarat), and the full appraisal mark from the UAE e-government covering such standards as domain, hosting, information structure, design, usability, explorability, online content management, marketing and communication.
It is worth mentioning also that the GAIAE won other certificates of excellence in the same period, including the Pan Arab Award for best socially interactive Facebook page (http://www.facebook.com/awqafUAE), the ISO 9001: 2008, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007 and the Sheikh Khalifa Government Excellence Award under the category of public entities that achieved highest results.
 













