addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file) 
 

First sermon
 
All due praise is to Allah, O Best of Guardians. I praise Him as is befitting to His Majesty and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. He is the Sovereign, the Truth. I also certify that Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, the meaning of which "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Muslims,
Allah, the Almighty, says, which means "And they followed [instead] what the devils had recited during the reign of Solomon. It was not Solomon who disbelieved, but the devils disbelieved, teaching people magic." (Al Baqara: 102). In the same regard, the Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "He is not amongst us (Muslims) who sees an evil omen in something or seen for him (by foreteller), and who foretells or been foretold, and who practice magic or had magic made for him and whoever refers to a magician believing what he says is declared as an unbeliever with the divine revelation to Muhammad pbuh."
Sorcery and fortunetelling are some practices for predicting what is hidden and matters of destiny with the aim of enchanting hearts, bodies, feelings, and characters. For this reason, the celestial religions agreed on prohibiting them. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, for example, considered magic and its learning amongst the mortal sins that condemns a person to Hell. He pbuh said, "Avoid the seven destructive things," performing black magic being one of them.
Sorcery is a serious disease shrouded with mystery, which can cause enormous damage like disrupting the harmony of households and breaking the ties amongst kith and kin. It is also a world replete with superstition and deceit, and characterised by fraud, injustice and odds. No wonder then it attracts to it demons and leads those who are after it to perdition. It (witchcraft) is therefore a cause of misery in this life and the Hereafter, for it denies its practitioner entry to Paradise. On this matter, our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "No one who is a drunkard or believer in sorcery will enter Paradise."
Furthermore, practicing black magic causes one's faith to fade away since his desire for exploring the unknown overlaps with Allah's exclusive quality as the Knower of the hidden. This is the case of the frail-hearted people who go to magicians and seek sorcery to foretell the unknown. By doing this they deviate from the truth that Allah Alone knows all as He says, meaning "Say, "None in the heavens and earth knows the unseen except Allah , and they do not perceive when they will be resurrected." (Annaml: 65).
Some would seek sorcery to bring luck and satisfy particular desires. In doing this, they are driven by mere illusions. There is another category of people who seek to harm others by upsetting their serenity and causing them to live in misery. Allah, may Glory be to Him, addresses them by saying, the meaning of which, "By which they cause separation between a man and his wife." (Al Baqara: 102).
But no matter what the sorcerers do, Allah, the Most Exalted, has vowed to annul their schemes and expose them. Allah the Almighty says, meaning "What you have brought is [only] magic. Indeed, Allah will expose its worthlessness." (Yunus: 81). He has also promised to humiliate them and cause them to fail as Allah, the Almighty, says, which means, "And the magician will not succeed wherever he is." (Taha: 69).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that a sorcerer is immoral, vicious and loser. Devoid of mercy and overwhelmed with humiliation, as he is, he succumbs to the whims of Satan and loses this life and the next. Therefore, he is denied  happiness and cannot help anyone else be happy either, despire what he claims. Moreover, if he holds for himself any power or benefit, he should rather do good to himself first before anyone else. As such he is nothing but a vile, wicked and ill-fated person who sows division and makes money out of it. Referring to the Pharaoh's magicians, Allah, the most Exalted, says, meaning "And the magicians came to Pharaoh. They said, 'Indeed for us is a reward if we are the predominant'." (Al Aaraf: 113).
Thus, whoever comes to seek the help of soothsayers or witches, will be let down by Allah, the Almighty, and will have his prayers annulled. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "He who visits a diviner and asks him about anything, his prayers extending to forty nights will not be accepted."
Dear Muslims,
One can easily identify magicians from the way they behave. For example, they tend to act as righteous as possible to deceive believers. They are also likely to be seen mumbling some verses of the Quran, uttering unclear words and talismans. Sometimes they ask about names and from the patient some clothes, hair or shoes. They may also ask their clients to provide them with birds, bones or other offerings. One of their tricks is to dramatise things so as to make people feel their salvation is within their hands.
As a result, those who are weak in faith can be easily trapped into believing what magicians say they can do for them because they are wrongly looking for hope. Yet only those who have their wills sapped and faith shattered amongst the indolent persons resort to diviners and soothsayers. So any sane person seeking sorcery he must have muted the voice of wisdom within him and has let himself taken by delusion and an improper sense of imagination.
To protect their faith and mind from such misleading myths, Muslims need to keep themselves away from charlatans, who say they can unfold the hidden or achieve miracles. Such claims have been massively circulated in some satellite channels. The latter broadcast on-air shows of palmistry, coffee-cup reading, astrology, among others. Yet all of these are nothing but purely false claims of prophecy through which diviners lure the ignorant and make money.
Bearing this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to preserve our hearts and minds from such illusions and protect ourselves and children from malicious schemes.
May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, obey Allah and be aware that reading the holy Quran and remembering Allah's name as taught by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh shall protect the Muslim from the heart diseases and Satan's whispers. Together with a strong faith in Allah, they will form a shield preventing the Muslim from craving for some uncontrolled desires and other life temptations. This way he will be able to get over the false attraction of acts of sorcery and soothsayers.
Although it exists, black magic cannot harm anyone unless Allah wills it. After all, He is the Benefactor, the Afflictor, and the Defender, for He says, meaning "But they do not harm anyone through it except by permission of Allah." (Al Baqara: 102). And if any one who could hold for himself and others some influence or advantage, it should have been our Prophet Muhammad pbuh. But Allah addressed him saying, what means "Say, 'I hold not for myself [the power of] benefit or harm, except what Allah has willed. And if I knew the unseen, I could have acquired much wealth, and no harm would have touched me. I am not except a warner and a bringer of good tidings to a people who believe'." (Al Aaraf: 188).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab:56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













