addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
  First sermon
 All praise is due to Allah, Who created the universe and excelled. He, Who has guided people to learn what is best. I exalt him for his boundless bounties, and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no associates. He says, which means, "Not absent from him is an atom's weight within the heavens or within the earth or smaller than that or greater, except that it is in a clear register." (Sabaa: 3).
 I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Apostle. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. He is the best of humankind who gave, learned and taught, hence opening a wider scope for nurturing thoughts. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
  As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to obey Allah, as He says, the meaning of which is "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18)
 O Believers, 
 The Islamic civilisation has fed humanity with many sciences and innovations because Islam is innately a religion of enlightenment that urges believers to pursue the path of knowledge. On this matter, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "to seek sacred knowledge is an obligation on every Muslim." It also aims at making people live happier. That is why the Prophet Muhammad pbuh used to take refuge in Allah from useless sciences by saying, "O Allah, I seek refuge with You from knowledge that is of no benefit."
 As such, many worldly scientific facts relating to astronomy, medicine, biology, geology, to name but a few, are mentioned in the holy Quran and Hadith and have ever since benefitted humanity. In astronomy, for example, the Quran explains the process of day and night alternation, a rule that has helped astronomers and other scientists to monitor the movements of planets and stars. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "And the sun runs [on course] toward its stopping point. That is the determination of the Exalted in Might, the Knowing. And the moon - We have determined for it phases, until it returns [appearing] like the old date stalk. It is not allowable for the sun to reach the moon, nor does the night overtake the day, but each, in an orbit, is swimming." (Cassin: 38-40).
Muslim scientists' contribution to astronomy is well known and the achievements of eighteen of them have been highly recognised by many researchers. As a result, an international space authority decided to name some of the lunar caters and landing sites after them.
 In embryology, the holy Quran was the first to mention the different stages of the fetus formation long before modern science could do so some two hundred years ago. Allah, may Glory be to Him, says what means, "And certainly did We create man from an extract of clay. Then We placed him as a sperm-drop in a firm lodging. Then We made the sperm-drop into a clinging clot, and We made the clot into a lump [of flesh], and We made [from] the lump, bones, and We covered the bones with flesh; then We developed him into another creation. So blessed is Allah, the best of creators." (Al Muaminun: 112-14).
On the same matter, Allah's Apostle Muhammad pbuh said, "a human being is put together in the womb of the mother in forty days, and then he becomes a clot of thick blood for a similar period, and then a piece of flesh for a similar period. Then Allah sends an angel who is ordered to write four things. He is ordered to write down his (i.e. the new creature's) deeds, his livelihood, his (date of) death, and whether he will be blessed or wretched (in religion). Then the soul is breathed into him."
 O Servants of Allah,
 The accomplishments brought by the Islamic civilisation were novel and innovative. Muslims were the first to found universities with Dar Al Hikma (the House of Wisdom) being the first higher education institution. This was followed by the establishment of other universities like Al Qarawiyyin and Al Azhar before many others saw the light in many places.
 After the spread of Islam, there emerged Muslim physicians who won wide acclaim. They were credited for being the first to invent methods of anaesthesia in surgery, discover the circulatory system and make the surgical sutures from absorbable materials as animal guts. Moreover, they succeeded in diagnosing many diseases, such as allergy, measles, and some mental and neurological conditions.
 Invoking our predecessors' achievements calls to mind the share of responsibility we should shoulder in promoting science and learning. The latter is an enterprise that bolsters one's pride and dignity, without which no civilisation can prosper.
 Bearing this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to help us better understand His revelation and the Sunna of His Messenger. May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah as you are ordered to do and observe his commands whether in secret or in public. Also be aware that Allah's directives and those of His Prophet pbuh had prompted our early scientists and scholars to seek the path of knowledge and excelled in it. And since the scope of knowledge is limitless, the Quran and Hadith will always carry deep meanings which need further probe. Allah, the Most Exalted says, the meaning of which is, "We will show them Our signs in the horizons and within themselves until it becomes clear to them that it is the truth. But is it not sufficient concerning your Lord that He is, over all things, a Witness?" (Fussilat: 53).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













