addthis_pub="newawqaf";















An extended meeting was held in Al Owais Hall in Dubai between Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the chairman of the official Haj delegation (OHD), and a host of Haj operators, doctors and preachers. The various stakeholders were briefed on the latest developments and actions regarding this year's Haj.
Also present were Dr Salem al Darmeki, the Ministry of Health undersecretary, Dr Abdulkarim al Zarouni, the OHD's vice-chairman and lead medical staff and Mr Obeid Hamad al Zaabi, the OHD's vice chairman for operators' affairs.
Mr al Mazrouei first extended his sincere thanks to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of UAE, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Duabi, Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, Members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, May Allah protect them all, for their unlimited support for the official delegation and all pilgrims.
He then urged the OHD's sub-committees to provide the best services to pilgrims in line with the instructions of the UAE wise leadership and in accordance to the guidelines set by the official delegation.
Among these committees is the security committee, which will cater to the safety of pilgrims and help them through cases of emergencies. UAE scouts will also give assistance in this regard.
A team from Abu Dhabi Food Control Authority will join the official delegation for the second time and will look into whether the food served to pilgrims is hygiene and in conformity with the safety conditions in force.
Another committee will be dedicated to inspecting the safety of accommodations in Mecca and Medina as well as the camps in Mina and Arafat.
A special preaching committee of 130 preachers, male and female, will also be dispatched to the Holy Places to provide counsel to pilgrims. They will be giving lectures and answering various queries relative to Haj and Umra.
As far as healthcare services are concerned, Mr al Mazrouei said that the Ministry of Health is keen to provide the highest standards of medical services. For this purpose, it has met all the necessary requirements, including a qualified staff and equipment. He added that pilgrims should undergo the necessary medical checks and take the compulsory vaccinations before heading to Haj.
Dr al Darmeki and Dr al Zarouni explained further that the Ministry of Health had provided medical staff, medicines, and equipment and called on doctors to maintain a medical file and form for each pilgrim as suggested by Awqaf.
For his part, Mr al Zaabi mentioned that it is important to certify the accommodation contracts in Mecca and Medina and provide comprehensive services to pilgrims with special needs. He also called on pilgrims and organisers to check whether the flight tickets are round-trip and duly booked and ensure that the Haj system is accurately maintained.
In his presentation, the preaching department director, Mr Taleb al Shehhi said it is essential to educate pilgrims about rituals before and during Haj. For this purpose, he asked the operators to provide suitable places and a schedule for lectures so that Awqaf will appoint preachers to deliver them. Mr al Shehhi also mentioned that Female pilgrims will equally benefit from preaching services offered by female preachers assigned by Awqaf.
At the end of the meeting, both the official delegation and the Haj operators discussed the best ways to reduce errors and complaints, especially to prevent the accumulation of pilgrims at Jeddah airport. 













