addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The GAIAE recently contracted Wave International General Contracting and Maintenance to build Shubra industrial building and administrative offices in Madinat Zayed in the Western Region.
The industrial buildings will comprise a warehouse of about 3500 sqm, which will be built according to architectural specifications, including drainage, electricity, fire resistance, among others. The administrative offices, designed for Awqaf use, will consist of two buildings of a ground floor and two storeys. The ground floor of each building will accommodate six shops for commercial activities with a total area of 700 sqm, while the first floor will host 12 office spaces with a total area of 800 sqm. The projects amount to more than AED 10 mn and will be completed within one year and a half as of the start work date.
At the signing of the contract, the Awqaf's director general, HE Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, mentioned that Awqaf was keen to develop endowments and diversify their sources in accordance to the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan,  President of the UAE,  HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai,  Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, Members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, who are sparing no effort in providing support and assistance to Awqaf's programmes.
On this occasion,  Dr al Kaabi highlighted the remarkable evolution of endowments, their sources and disbursement channels, which have served many segments of society. He also praised the donors' positive response to various Waqf campaigns launched annually by Awqaf. "This means that the members of the community have grasped the role of Waqf in society, which is an important element in the Awqaf's strategy that was approved by the Cabinet. We believe this way endowments can be well developed and its sources expanded," Dr al Kaabi said.
 
 













