addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, sent off on Monday the UAE official Haj delegation (OHD), which flew from Abu Dhabi Airport to the Holy Sites. Led by HE Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the OHD comprises medical, security, financial, preaching, media committees, among others. The ceremony was attended by a host of Awqaf's officials and well-wishers.
Dr al Mazrouei advised the OHD's members to rise to the occasion and be the best in terms of organisation by adhering to the principles of Fiqh (jurisprudence) and administrative procedures. He also reminded them that their mission is, first of all, for the sake of Allah, the Most Exalted.
He said that thanks to Allah, the Almighty, and the great support from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of UAE, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, Members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the official delegation had succeeded year after year in its mission.
He also commanded the fruitful cooperation with the Saudi Haj Ministry and Embassy in Abu Dhabi.
Addressing the official delegation, he said, "I urge everyone to work hard and be dedicated to best representing our country and leadership before Allah, the Most High, and be good example for pilgrims from all over the world."
He also advised the official delegation to cater for the needs of pilgrims and address their problems and called upon the pilgrims to respect laws and regulations because these are essential for ensuring a good quality service and organisation.
On this matter, he warned that pilgrims and Haj operators should make sure appropriate accommodations are available as described in the contract whether in Mecca, Medina, Mina and Arafat. This is in order to avoid the accumulation of large numbers of pilgrims in camping places. Dr al Mazrouei also cautioned pilgrims not to seek the services of non-accredited Haj operators.
On another note, he said, "the pilgrims are our people and we are keenly interested in their welfare during their stay in the Holy Sites. And this is a commitment from us as well as a responsibility before our prudent leadership... May Allah grant you and all pilgrims His acceptance."
It is worth mentioning that Awqaf, in coordination with various airports' management and Al Ghweifat border point, has set up offices to advise pilgrims about Haj rites and conditions and answer their queries. 
 













