addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai, attended a presentation on the inauguration day of the Gitex Technology Week 2012 about the Awqaf application on smart phone and tablets. HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, explained the various services and features of the new application.
Awqaf developed the application named AWQAF with the aim of helping members of the community to access new services, such as the interactive map to help in finding the location of mosques, Quran memorisation centres, Waqf delegates and money donation boxes, in addition to times prayers, Qibla direction, to name but a few. The application is available in two languages: Arabic and English and is free for download.
The new move is part of Awqaf's strategic plan approved by the Cabinet and aims at electronically transforming many of its services. It is also part of its efforts to better cater for the community needs, taking advantage from the latest IT technological solutions, which they are also benefitting the UAE federal e-government programmes.
The Awqaf application comprises also e-Fatwas, detailed information about Haj and Umra, including access to the official Haj delegation, names of accredited operators, as well as an interface designed for users to enrich Friday Khutba topics, publications, Waqf services for donors, among others.
Awqaf also promoted its website registered under the Arabic domain (أوقاف.امارات) and the newly developed official call centre 800AWQAF designed for providing comprehensive solutions for customer relationship management. The centre will use the Microsoft dynamics 2011, allowing the involvement of all departments to provide a complete case management since creation until resolution. Customers can follow up the progress of their complaints, queries or complaints and will be contacted by phone, email or SMS.
Awqaf took part at Gitex this year under the umbrella of the UAE Federal e-Government, about which Dr al Kaabi said, "Our participation at the Federal e-Government pavilion came to consolidate the concerted efforts between the two entities and was also in line with our strategic plan as adopted by the Cabinet... It was also a good opportunity for government institutions to interact with each other and exchange experiences in providing technological solutions."
Dr al Kaabi toured Awqaf stand at Gitex and lauded the great efforts made by all staff members of the IT department, led by Ms Mariam Rashed al Braiki, the IT department director at Awqaf. He also praised the team work spirit that had energised the personnel during different phases of implementing the new e-services.
 Awqaf stand at the Gitex Technology Week 2012 attracted crowds of visitors, who expressed their appreciation for the variety of services showcased, and enquired about how they can best use them in their daily lives.
 













