addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
 Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Kabira wa al Hamdu Lillahi Kathira, wa Subhana Allahi Bukratan wa Asila (Allah is the greatest-nine successive times-and to Allah goes all praise. And Glory to Allah, eventide and in the morning).
 Whatever is in the heavens and earth pays tribute to Allah, and He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise. There is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He says, "The seven heavens and the earth and whatever is in them exalt Him. And there is not a thing except that it exalts [Allah] by His praise, but you do not understand their [way of] exalting. Indeed, He is ever Forbearing and Forgiving."(Al Israa: 44).
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Muslims,
 Today is the day of celebration, a day of delight and enjoyment and a time to show sincere obedience to Allah. It is the blessed Eid al Adha-the celebration of the sacrifice, one of the greatest days to Allah, about which our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "The greatest day in Allah's sight is the day of sacrifice."
 Eids in Islam are unique for they come to bring joy to Muslims after having strived hard and succeeded in offering acts of worship. They are also some valuable occasions to thank Allah for His infallible pledge to forgive His believing servants' faults. So today is the time for the great remission Allah, the Almighty, has promised His servants who headed to Haj or those who increased acts of worship on these days of Dhu al Hijja by, for example, fasting the Day of Arafa.
O blessed those who have stood on the Mount of Arafat and came back from it with their sins expiated. On their way back to Al Masjid Al Haram, they would pass by Muzdalifa overwhelmed with Allah's Mercy. From there they would set out for Mina for stoning of the Jamarat and again for the Ancient House (Kaaba) to perform Tawaf.
 For every act they do, Pilgrims will have angels surrounding them and light shining on them, not to mention the limitless bounties they will get as recompense. Credit also goes to non-pilgrims who would choose to stand by their counterparts performing Haj by fasting and praying to Allah with great hope to receive His blessed forgiveness, satisfaction and guidance.
 Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah (there is no deity except Allah), wa Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
 O Believers,
 Takbir (pronouncement of Allah is the Greatest) is one of the Eid rituals with which Muslims would express their gratitude to their Lord for His favours on them on these blessed days and times. That is why our Prophet Muhammad pbuh recommended pronouncing Takbir after each obligatory prayer since the Day of Arafa until the sunset of the last days of Tashriq (11-12-13th of Dhu al-Hijja).
 Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah, wa Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
 Dear Muslims,
Please remember that Eid days are moments for joy and celebration but also for Dhikr and Takbir. Abu Huraira, may Allah be satisfied with him, reported that the Prophet Muhammad pbuh sent Abdullah bin Hudhafa to Mina to convey his message: "do not fast these days for they are the days of eating, drinking and remembering Allah."
On these days, it is also highly recommended to honour ties of kinship, visit friends and neighbours and shake hands with people. By doing this, Muslims will be rewarded and have their sins removed, as our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Two Muslims will not meet and shake hands having their sins forgiven them before they separate." Allah has made for us these moments for showing joy and cherishing some good leisure times for the sake of remembering His bounties on us and bringing happiness to our family.
 In this regard, Aisha, may Allah be satisfied with her, said, "Abu Bakr came to see me and I had two girls with me from among the girls of the Ansar and they were singing what the Ansar recited to one another at the Battle of Buaath. They were not, however, singing girls. Upon this Abu Bakr said protestingly, 'Musical instruments of Satan in the house of Allah's Apostle and this too on Eid day?' Upon this the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him) said, ' Abu Bakr, every people have a festival and it is our festival (so let them play on)'."
 Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah, wa Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
 O Allah, we ask your favour to render all our days Eids and make the best of our days, the day when we meet You. O Allah, keep us in Your care and protect us. May Allah also help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey.
 Second sermon
 Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar.
 Allahu Akbar Kabira, wa Al Hamdulillahi Kathira (Allah Praise is due to Him). By His grace, good deeds are accomplished. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, please obey Allah as you are instructed and know that what promotes communion on the Eid Day is the act of slaughtering the sacrifices as offerings to Allah. He ordered us to do this as a means to come closer to him, but he also enjoined upon us to eat from their meat and give away part of them to the family, friends and the poor.
 Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "And the camels and cattle We have appointed for you as among the symbols of Allah; for you therein is good. So mention the name of Allah upon them when lined up [for sacrifice]; and when they are [lifeless] on their sides, then eat from them and feed the needy and the beggar." (Al Haj: 36).
 As far as Eid ethics are concerned, our Master Muhammad pbuh used to instruct Muslims to start the day with slaughtering the sacrifice after performing the prayer. On this matter, Al Baraa Ibn Azib reported Allah's Messenger pbuh having said, "The first (act) with which we started our day (the day of Eid Al Adha) was that we offered prayer. We then returned and sacrificed the animals and he who did that in fact adhered to our Sunna. And he who slaughtered the (animal on that day before the Eid prayer), for him (the slaughtering of animal was directed to the acquiring of) meat for his family, and there is nothing of the sort of sacrifice in it."
 It is also encouraged for the owner of the sacrifice to attend to its slaughter and recite Takbir. This is one of dearest acts to Allah, the Almighty, on this day. About it, the Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "a human does no action from the actions on the day of Nahr more beloved to Allah then spilling blood. On the Day of judgement, it will appear with its horns, and hair, and hooves, and indeed the blood will be accepted by Allah from where it is received before it even falls upon earth, so let your heart delight in it."
 Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah, wa Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
 Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
 We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O Servants of Allah, Please stand up for Salat and may Allah forgive your misdeeds and purify you. May Allah also grant you a prosperous year ahead.
Note: the Eid Al Adha prayer will be performed at 6:45 am (Abu Dhabi time).    













