addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All due praise is to Allah. I praise Him as is befitting to His Majesty and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
O Believers,
Ihsan (Literally means perfection or excellence) is a highly praised manner that takes the individual to treat others fairly in accordance with Allah's instructions: "Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives." (Annahl: 90). In this sense Justice is the act of accepting what one has and performing what he is supposed to do. But Ihsan is one degree further than this. It is the perfection in doing good deeds by taking little and giving more. That is why Allah, the most High, has promised Muhsinin (people of Ihsan) to receive not only an equal treatment but also to have His special favours as a token of reward. Allah said, "Is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Arrahman: 60).
Ihsan is therefore a cause for winning Allah's love, for He says, "And do good; indeed, Allah loves the doers of good." (Al Baqara: 195). So anyone who wins Allah's love will get the privilege to come closer to Him and receive abundant recompense. Allah said, "For them who have done good is the best [reward] and extra. No darkness will cover their faces, nor humiliation. Those are companions of Paradise; they will abide therein eternally." (Yunus: 26).
Indeed excelling in doing good is a remarkable path leading to paradise and a means to earn the honour to rejoice the sight of Allah, the most Generous. On this matter, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "When those deserving of Paradise would enter Paradise, the Blessed and the Exalted would ask, 'Do you wish Me to give you anything more?' They would say,'Hast Thou not brightened our faces? Hast Thou not made us enter Paradise and saved us from Fire?' Thereupon, Allah would lift the veil, and of things given to them nothing would he dearer to them than the sight of their Lord, the Mighty and the Glorious."
O Allah, we seek Your Mercy to grant us Your generous bounties, grant us Your paradise and do not deprive us from Your sight, Ameen.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Ihsan has different levels, the highest of which is our worshipping Allah in the best of forms. This can be obtained by duly obeying Him in every act we perform, whether in secret or in public. This is well described by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he was asked by Jibreel (Gibrael). He said, "Ihsan is to worship Allah as if you see Him, and if you cannot see Him, then indeed Allah sees you."
So each time an individual is by himself or feels tempted to disobey Allah, he should turn away from that and remember Allah, the Almighty, is constantly watching over him. Allah says, "Indeed, those who fear Allah - when an impulse touches them from Satan, they remember [Him] and at once they have insight." (Al Aaraf: 201). 
Among the aspects of Ihsan also are treating people and talking to them nicely for Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "And speak to people good [words]." (Al Baqara: 83). And when you are greeted by someone, you should greet him back with a better greeting. Similarly, if you are abused either verbally or physically, it is still better to fend off the confrontation by seeking the best manners. Allah, may Glory be to Him, says, "Repel, by [means of] what is best, [their] evil. We are most knowing of what they describe." (Al Muaminun: 96).
Dear Muslims, 
Speaking of Ihsan begs the question:  which of Allah' creation deserves it first? The answer is parents as Allah says: "And We have enjoined upon man, to his parents, good treatment." (Al Ahqaf: 15). This requires of us to treat them nicely, cater for their needs, obey their commands, serve them, visit them, do whatever one can to make them feel happy, pray for them whether they are alive or dead and give charity on their behalf.
Ihsan is also due to spouses, children, relatives, neighbours, friends, the poor and orphans. This calls for performing such acts as visiting them, interacting with them, helping them, and bringing happiness to them even by a good word or a caring smile. Allah, the Almighty says, "Worship Allah and associate nothing with Him, and to parents do good, and to relatives, orphans, the needy, the near neighbour, the neighbour farther away, the companion at your side, the traveller." (Annisaa: 36). 
Another aspect of Ihsan is excelling in work so Allah may accept it and give it the best of rewards. On this matter, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Allah loves that whenever any of you does something, he should excel in it." 
No wonder then that the scope of Ihsan is broad and goes beyond humans to include animals, as our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "verily Allah has prescribed Ihsan in all things." This involves feeding animals, treating them well and taking care of them. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh was asked, "O Allah's Apostle, is there a reward for us in serving also the animals?" He said, "(Yes) There is a reward for serving any animate (living being)."
Bearing this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to grant us Ihsan and make us amongst the people of Ihsan. May Allah help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annissaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his righteous companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that Ihsan involves also the training of the self to excel in whatever act that may please Allah, the most Exalted, and avoid whatever act that may displease Him. So anyone who does this may obtain the greatest rewards from Allah, the most Bountiful for He says, "Indeed, the righteous will be among gardens and springs, accepting what their Lord has given them. Indeed, they were before that doers of good. They used to sleep but little of the night and in the hours before dawn they would ask forgiveness, and from their properties was [given] the right of the [needy] petitioner and the deprived." (Al Dhariyat: 15-19).
Looking at Ihsan from more than one perspective, we can see that it benefits the whole society by strengthening its cohesion and protecting it from dislocation. Thus it is amongst the finest qualities that promotes love and charity, which is associated with sophisticated communities. Moreover, it is a reason for Allah's blessings and Mercy to descend. He, the Almighty, said, "And not equal are the good deed and the bad. Repel [evil] by that [deed] which is better; and thereupon the one whom between you and him is enmity [will become] as though he was a devoted friend. But none is granted it except those who are patient, and none is granted it except one having a great portion [of good]." (Fussilat: 34-35).
Dear Muslims, 
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, the meaning of which is, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













