addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf's Chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, met recently a host of outstanding speakers from all over the UAE, who were selected for their capacity for improvisation. The chosen speakers will put into effect the recent decision by the board of directors encouraging outstanding speakers to choose relevant Friday khutba topics of their own and as per the standards set by Awqaf.
The meeting was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, and Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director of Islamic Affairs.
Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei mentioned that the UAE is endowed with a prudent leadership that has promoted principles of loyalty and a great sense of belonging to this generous nation. He also spoke of the special interest of the founding father, Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, in educating and building people, and drew attention to different phases of the historical evolution of the UAE society.
He then underlined the remarkable achievements of the UAE wise leadership under HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, Members of the Supreme Court, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Force, in ensuring peace, security and stability for everyone living in the country.   
"This healthy social, national, economic, and religious environment is a reality, not fantasy. It is also a fact that reflects our deeply-rooted love for our leadership and special interest to serve our beloved country,
"Indeed [it is this sense of loyalty] that media outlets need to highlight... So any person from this country, who fails to observe this duty, is ungrateful. And any person not from this country, who overlooks it, is at fault for breaching trust and honesty. Please remember that Friday Khutba is a principle of Shariaa and part of the ruler's responsibilities, which has been assigned to Awqaf. We in turn have assigned this mission to you and placed our trust in you, the Friday sermon speakers. You are therefore kindly requested to excel in preparing and delivering the Khutba and create some positive interaction with the audience," Dr al Mazrouei said.
 
 













