addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 

First sermon
All praise be to Allah. We thank Him, we seek His help and His forgiveness. We repent to Him, and we ask Him to protect us and guard us from the evil within ourselves, and the evil of our deeds.
Those who are guided by Allah, nothing shall misguide them, and those who are misguided by Allah; nothing shall guide them.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, the one; the only; who has no associates. And I bear witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and His messenger. He was the bringer of good tidings, a warner, and an illuminating lamp.  May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who live like them till the Day of Resurrection.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to obey Allah as it pleases Him and as is His order to the former and later peoples. He, the Almighty, says, "And to Allah belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth. And We have instructed those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah." (Annisaa: 131). He also says, "O you who have believed, eat from the good things which We have provided for you and be grateful to Allah if it is [indeed] Him that you worship." (Al Baqara: 172).
He, the Most Exalted, further says, "And We had certainly given Luqman wisdom [and said], "Be grateful to Allah." (Luqman:12). In the same regard, our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "The one who is not grateful for little is not grateful for plenty and the one who is not grateful to people is not grateful to Allah. To display Allah's bounties is gratefulness and to refrain from that is ungratefulness. Togetherness is mercy while disunity is punishment."
In another verse, Allah, may Glory be to Him says, "But as for the favour of your Lord, report [it]." (Adduha: 11).
Bearing this in mind, it is our duty to duly praise Allah for blessing this country with abundant bounties and obey Him the way He has ordered us: to adhere to His instructions and abstain from His prohibitions. Truly, by showing gratitude to Allah, the most Providing, His blessings shall last and His favours increase. He, the Almighty, says, "If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favour]." (Ibrahim: 7).
But how can we be grateful to our Creator? One way to do this is to shun away from causes of division and discord and support those in authority among us by holding them in high esteem, praying for them and obeying them. We can also do the same by working together in the best interest of all and speaking good of them, for our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "if anyone does you a kindness, recompense him; but if you have not the means to do so, pray for him until you feel that you have compensated him."
Dear Muslims,
As you may witness, everybody, near and far, can see and feel the boundless blessings of Allah on us. So after times of hardship, disunity and weakness, the UAE has emerged to be an example of unity, welfare, great achievements, stability and prosperity. This leap could not have happened without, first, Allah's providence and then the sincere efforts of the founding fathers of this blessed nation in raising its status and that of everyone who lives in it.
Please bear in mind that the UAE's unique civilsational rise has not been without a solid foundation based on everlasting humane values, which emanate  from the principles of Islam. All in all, it has made of justice and protection of rights its basis, of tolerance and coexistence its guiding light and of cooperation and openness to others its brand label. What is more, it has formidably turned the act of giving and assisting others in adversity a continuing tradition, and constantly kept to good manners in dealing with peoples, whether they are near or far. Throughout this process, it has adhered to the teachings of our Guide Muhammad pbuh, who was described  in this verse as a man of sublime morality: "And indeed, you are of a great moral character." (Al Qalam: 4).
Indeed, these noble values have earned the UAE a diamond-bright reputation at home and abroad as well as a deserved appreciation from all fair-minded people. However, as envy exists, some covetous people with personal agendas attempted to propagate falsehood about our beloved country. But all of their premises turn out to be groundless and lack any rational principle of analysis.
Enough said as the facts speak for themselves. And this is evidenced in the affluent standard of living that people are enjoying in the UAE thanks to the keen interest of the prudent leadership in their welfare pursuant to Allah's words: "And We have certainly honoured the children of Adam." (Al Israa: 70). Our leaders have provided all the necessary means of life and mobilised all of their potentials and capabilities to build human capital and care for people's health and safety. For the same purpose, they have built schools, universities and hospitals to ensure a comprehensive development all over the country. These efforts have paid off with Emiratis obtaining the highest academic degrees and experience and making many remarkable achievements.
For their part, women have received utmost care and enjoyed all of their rights,  including eduation and work. Therefore, they have been active and assumed highest positions, allowing them to contribute effectively to the rise and advancement of their nation.
For these reasons and others, the UAE has won the admiration of people from all around the world and become a preferred work destination for many. Many nationalities are happy to come to earn their living here because they believe Emiratis are tolerant and  keen to treat everyone fairly and protect people's rights and dignity.
May Allah perpetuate Your generous provision to us and Your grace so we remain ever grateful to You and maintain Your blessings. May Allah help us also to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey pursuant to Your instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah as it pleases Him and do observe his commands whether in secret or in public.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that protecting the blessings of Allah upon us is a shared responsibility that requires of us to hold on to the teachings of Islam, our noble social values and morality as well as to our authentic traditions. It also calls for instilling in ourselves and in our children loyalty to our nation and to its leadership. For this, we need to strive in every avenue to highlight our beloved country where we live and benefit from its provision.
Similarly, we need to ready ourselves at each instant to defend it against any plot and show its bright image to all, using modern technology in the best interest of our nation and community and in the perfect way that would strenghten our unity. In doing this we should be armoured mostly with a good intention of winning Allah's satisfaction. He, the Most High, says, "And hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided. And remember the favor of Allah upon you - when you were enemies and He brought your hearts together and you became, by His favor, brothers." (Al Imran: 103).
It is also necessary that we remain cautious of venemous ideas, alien thoughts and impulses, and of everything that are counterproductive to our religion or threaten our nation.So to appreciate further the grace of prosperity we all enjoy, let us compare our situation with that of other less fortunate communities, whether in the past or present, where fear and hunger were rampant. Gaining such a knowledge should give us more reasons to better thank Allah for His provision and favours.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, , "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













