addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah. He commanded His Messenger to migrate from Mecca to Medina and granted him empowerment. I bear witness there is no deity save Allah, having no partners, and that Muhammad is His servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who live like them till the Day of Resurrection.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us as He says, "Indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (Annahl: 128).
O Muslims,
Allah, the Most Exalted, sent His Messenger with guidance and religion of truth. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh answered the call and stayed in Mecca preaching Islam and reaching out to tribes and envoys. But he found little support and endorsement. Instead he was severly harmed, yet he remained patient untill Allah, the most High, awarded Him with Ansars (supporters) who embraced Islam before they went back to Medina. This was a fitting prelude to the Hijra (Migration) of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Then Allah, may Glory be to Him, authorised His Messenger to start the journey to Medina, a call that his followers answered without hesitation. The Prophet pbuh remained a little while in Mecca waiting for the permission from His Lord to set off for the trip. Meanwhile Quraish tribes plotted against his departure. Their leaders agreed on selecting a young man from each clan to go after the Propehet pbuh and kill him. According to the plan, his blood will then be distributed amongst Quraish.
Allah, the most Exalted, says, "And [remember, O Muhammad], when those who disbelieved plotted against you to restrain you or kill you or evict you [from Makkah]. But they plan, and Allah plans. And Allah is the best of planners." Al Anfal: 30).
As He promised, Allah saved his Apostle pbuh, who went out from Mecca before their enemies' eyes, but their sight were momentarily taken away. He took a handful of dust and started pouring it on their heads, while reciting this verse: "And We have put before them a barrier and behind them a barrier and covered them, so they do not see." (Yassin: 9).
Muhamamd pbuh went to Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with  him, in his house and both of them walked out by night until they reached the Cave of Thawr and took refuge in it. In the meantime, Quraish had left no stone unturned to find him untill they reached the Cave gate and stood by there. Then Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him, turned to the Prophet pbuh and said, "Allah's Messenger, if one amongst them were to see at his feet he would have surely seen us. Thereupon he said: Abu Bakr, what can befall two who have Allah as the third One with them.
About this incident Allah, the Almighty, says, "If you do not aid the Prophet - Allah has already aided him when those who disbelieved had driven him out [of Makkah] as one of two, when they were in the cave and he said to his companion, "Do not grieve; indeed Allah is with us." And Allah sent down his tranquillity upon him and supported him with angels you did not see and made the word of those who disbelieved the lowest, while the word of Allah - that is the highest. And Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise." (Attawba: 40).
Thus, Allah, the Most Exalted, saved them. The Prophet pbuh and Abu Bakr remained at the Cave for three days and nights, during which Asmaa, may Allah be pleased with her, used to bring them food and water wheras Abdullah Ibn Bakr report news to them. For their journey  they hired Abdullah Ibn Urayqith to guide them.
O Believers,
The Prophet Migration was a decisive milestone in the history of Mulims, rather in the history of the whole humanity. It marked the beginning of a new epoch, a birth of a great nation. It was also an epitome of the most noble values and meaningful lessons that characterised the best of Creation: the Prophet pbuh, and his thorny struggle for the sake of guiding people to the right path.
As a reward of his endurance, our Prophet pbuh got the ultimate support from Allah, the Almighty, who led him to triumph and manifest the religion of truth. This was also a reward for his sincere confidence in Allah, an event that should serve us as a reminder to always strenghten our faith in our Creator, the Most Exalted, seek His help at every instant and obey Him as it pleases Him.
The Prophetic Migration is also a lesson for us in good planning and perseverance. It highlighted the role of the youth and women, who proved that they could contribute equally as their male counterparts in advocating rights and values and beneficially populating the society.  This mission was given utmost care by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh who was keen to build a strongly united community, for he drew our attention to the necessity of nurturing harmony for body, mind and soul through sincere guidance and faith.
It is our duty, therefore, to explore further the Sunna of the Prophet pbuh and get invaluable lessons and sermons.
Dear Muslims,
Other benefits of the Migration  is fostering a sense of harmony, altruism and unity as best shown in the good rapport between Muhajireen (migrants) and Ansar (supporters). They gave some of the finest examples of compassion and hamony leading to the establishment of a close-knit community characterised by the most beautiful moral quallities. In their description, Allah, the Most High, says, "For the poor emigrants who were expelled from their homes and their properties, seeking bounty from Allah and [His] approval and supporting Allah and His Messenger, [there is also a share]. Those are the truthful. And [also for] those who were settled in al-Madinah and [adopted] the faith before them. They love those who emigrated to them and find not any want in their breasts of what the emigrants were given but give [them] preference over themselves, even though they are in privation. And whoever is protected from the stinginess of his soul - it is those who will be the successful." (Al Hashr: 8-9).
Indeed the migrants and supporters, may Allah be pleased with them, set a good example of altruism, charity, compassion and harmony. They were sincerely keen to maintain the bonds of society stronger, spread good manners and contribute to acts of goodness and piety. They kept away from immoral behaviours, alien thoughts and were not after personal gains or driven by twisted partisanship. They were clean and pure in heart and soul. With this wise attitude, they stood by the astute leadership and support cooperative efforts geared towards filling hearts and engineering the land the way it pleases Allah, the Most Exalted.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon,
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, the best of Creation, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Our Prophet pbuh instructed us saying, "The Muslim is the one from whose tongue and hand the Muslims are safe, and the Muhajir is the one who forsakes (Hajara) that which Allah has forbidden to him." In memory of the Migration that we celebrate every year, we should renew our covenant with our Creator, the All Knowing, the Numberer of All. We should always remember as well that He has created us from nothing and bestowed upon us His generous blessings and that, at every moment, He watches over us and listens to us. Indeed His praise is extolled as His names sanctified.
We dearly seek His favour to grant us His satisfaction and guide us to welcome the new year in accordance to what our Prophet Muhammad pbuh advised us: "the best fasting after the month of Ramadan is the month of Allah, Al Muharram, and the best prayer is prayer at night." Bearing this in mind, let us welcome this year  by increasing acts of worship and doing good.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













