addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 

First sermon
 
All praise is due to Allah as is befitting to Him. I bear witness there is no deity save Allah, having no partners, and that Muhammad is His servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who live like them till the Day of Resurrection.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
O Muslims,
Islam has laid solid foundations that ensure happiness for all mankind, and ordered justice, good conduct and giving. For example, it devotes great care to family and children, and appoints parents to assume this responsibility. This would involve nursing children and catering for their needs like providing food, clothes and safety. In this regard, Allah, the Almighty, says, "Mothers may breastfeed their children two complete years for whoever wishes to complete the nursing [period]. Upon the father is the mothers' provision and their clothing according to what is acceptable. No person is charged with more than his capacity. No mother should be harmed through her child, and no father through his child. And upon the [father's] heir is [a duty] like that [of the father]." (Al Baqara: 233).
In the same regard, our Prophet highlighted that child rearing responsibility should lie with parents for he said, "every one of you is a guardian and is responsible for his charge; the man is a guardian in his family and responsible for his charges; a woman is a guardian of her husband's house and responsible for her charges."
Part of this responsibility is to show kindness to children for which our Master Muhammad pbuh was a good example. Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, described him: "I have never seen anyone more kind to one's family than Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him)."
No wonder then that he pbuh was keen on treating children fairly when he said, "fear Allah, and observe equity in case of your children." He himself would condemn, for example, anyone who might give a kiss to his son and deny the same to his daughter. It was reported that a father was sitting with the Prophet pbuh when a son of him came. He seated him on his lap and kissed him. After a while his daughter also came. But he only seated her beside him. Thereupon, the Prophet pbuh said, "you did not act in equity between them."
Allah's Apostle also laid great stress on orphans' welfare by showing its merits and the great reward associated with it. On this matter, he said, "I and the one who looks after an orphan will be like this in Paradise," showing his middle and index fingers.
 Dear fathers and mothers,
Taking good care of children is a great responsibility. To ensure we undertake it successfully, it is imperative that we treat children kindly and delicately according to the educational principles set by our Prophet pbuh. He said, "for if gentleness is found in anything, it beautifies it and when it is taken out from anything it damages it."
 
This calls for avoiding treating children harshly as mentioned in the following Hadith. It was narrated that a bedouin came to the Prophet and said, "You (people) kiss the boys! We don't kiss them." The Prophet said, "I cannot put mercy in your heart after Allah has taken it away from it." An alternative to this, of course, is to carefully educating them and gently guiding them, which is a more efficient strategy in the long term. Our Master Muhammad pbuh used to teach Abullah Ibn Abbas, while he was still a kid, by telling him: "O boy! I will instruct you in some matters. Be watchful of Allah (Commandments of Allah), He will preserve you. Safeguard His Rights, He will be ever with you. If you beg, beg of Him Alone; and if you need assistance, supplicate to Allah Alone for help."
What is more, as parents we need to watch over our children's behaviour, look into their needs, see which type of friends they have so we can guide them to choose the good company. Our Guide pbuh said, "A man follows the religion of his friend; so each one should consider whom he makes his friend." We need also to check which kind of content they follow via various media including the social networking websites on the Internet and other applications available through smart phones, especially at this time of fast-changing technology.
To achieve all of this, it is crucial that we avoid using violence, speaking obscene words, or abusing children in any form whatsoever. Indeed, Allah's Apostle never used bad language. He used to say "The best amongst you are those who have the best manners and character."
Dear Muslims,
Our prudent leadership has successfully set the laws and regulations that conserve children's rights and ensure they are well cared for. One related law is the new code named "Wadima", which defines the family, health, educational, cultural and social rights of children. It also provides for children's safety and forbids all forms of violence and abuse against them.
With this in mind, we seek Allah's grace to help us taking good care of our children. O Lord, grant us from among our wives and offspring comfort to our eyes, and help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey pursuant to Your instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and know that to best educate our children we should do it ourselves and rely less on others. So for their good education, we need to strengthen in them our most beautiful values, good manners, noble norms and authentic traditions, and teach them the virtues of giving, hospitality, respect for the elderly, goodly word, compassion, tolerance and sincere love for our nation and leadership.
Truly these are the greatest Islamic values that our society has inherited from our fathers and grandfathers, ones that strengthen the bonds of love between members of the community. Sayeda Khadija, may Allah be pleased with her, was right when she addressed the Prophet Muhammad pbuh saying, "Never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones."
Dear Muslims,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













