addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf commemorated the Prophet Muhammad pbuh Hijra (migration from Mecca to Medina). The celebration, which was held at the Abu Dhabi Theatre, was attended by Awqaf's chairman and a host of officials and scholars from Awqaf and students from Mohammed V University in Abu Dhabi.
In his speech, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, extended his greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, the UAE Crown Princes, the UAE people and the world.
Referring to Hijra, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that this event had also a metaphorical meaning. It is not only a physical movement from one place to another. It is also a migration from ignorance to knowledge, from darkness to light, from sin to guidance, from corruption to integrity, and from laziness to vigour and energy.
He added that Awqaf had shouldered the responsibility to translate the vision of the wise leadership aiming at promoting the noble values of mercy, love and compassion amongst the UAE community members.
"Awqaf is the UAE's leading entity promoting social awareness and progress according to the tolerant teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges. Thus it promotes these values with the aim of enhancing religious awareness based on principles of moderation and tolerance amongst youth," Dr al Kaabi said.
Other speakers highlighted many more aspects of Hijra and how this latter contributed to the establishment of a new, solid and stable society and civilisation revolving around three elements: faith, people and nation.
 
 













