addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
All praise is due to Allah, the Exalted in Might. He instructed us to hold to His firm rope. I bear witness there is no deity save Allah Alone, having no associates. He blessed us with the Union and has made it a cause for bringing people together in harmony and increasing prosperity. He has united the believers' hearts around Him and strengthened their unity. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who live like them till the Day of Resurrection.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us as He says, "And indeed this, your religion, is one religion, and I am your Lord, so fear Me." (Al Muaminun: 52).
O Believers,
Both the holy Quran and Hadith have urged us to hold on steadfastly to the rope of Allah, the Almighty, and His most trustworthy handhold. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh stressed the need for unity and harmony, and warned against disagreement and lack of disobedience. He said, "So observe Salat in congregation, for the wolf eats up a solitary sheep that stays far from the flock."
Islam calls for unity because it is the basis for happiness and progress. Hardly can any nation achieve progress or enjoy welfare unless its people come together and join their efforts in the best interest of society. So the Union is by its nature a great blessing from Allah, Who says, "And hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided. And remember the favour of Allah upon you - when you were enemies and He brought your hearts together and you became, by His favour, brothers." (Al Imran: 103).
Dear Muslims,
As Muslims we need always to ponder Allah's blessings on us and duly thank Him for that. One of His prodigious bounties is love, for the latter leads to joining hearts together and calls for doing good. About its merits on His Apostle Muhammad pbuh and Companions, may Allah be pleased with them, Allah, the Almighty, says, "It is He who supported you with His help and with the believers. And brought together their hearts. If you had spent all that is in the earth, you could not have brought their hearts together; but Allah brought them together. Indeed, He is Exalted in Might and Wise." (Al Anfal: 62-63).
Allah has blessed our beloved country, the UAE, with wise leaders, who are keen to cater for our interests and achieve our happiness. They shoulder the responsibility of building the nation, raising its status and safeguarding its integrity. Thus providing prosperity and stability and promoting development and progress come at the top of their interests. And in this pursuit, Allah, the most Generous, has endowed them with noble values and wisdom.
Guided by the lofty teachings of Islam, our prudent leaders have succeeded in their mission  and brought great benefits to people. As a result, both the leadership and people from all walks of life have come to be united by bonds of love, mutual respect and loyalty. In this regard, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke God's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them." This means you shall pray for them and they shall pray for you.
These qualities and aptitude, which Allah, the most Exalted, has conferred upon our rulers, have been convincing to tribes to support the wise leadership. The history still relates proudly the contribution of the founding fathers in the establishment of this blessed Union. 
Dear Servants of Allah,
Indeed the Union has yielded impressive results. Since the foundation of the UAE, many public facilities have been built, including hospitals, health centres, schools, universities, mosques, roads and holy Quran memorisation centres. Education has developed. In this process, the importance is given to building to humans before building edifices. Thus, women have been empowered and means of welfare provided, reaching every corner of the country.
In a remarkable example of synergy, members of the community and their leadership are strongly united as one family. They share their joys, care and mutually respect each other.
By the grace of Allah, our country have enjoyed abundant blessings as shown in international statistics. It stands neck and neck with advanced countries. Moreover, it has become a major destination that attracts people from all around the world for work opportunities and a better life. Currently, there are more than 200 nationalities living here cherishing  a decent livelihood. And when the situation calls for charity elsewhere, UAE would respond generously and bring humanitarian relief to the needy and the afflicted pursuant to the Hadith saying, "the dearest among people to Allah Almighty is the most beneficial to people."
O Believers,
Please know that these extraordinary accomplishments could not come true without the perseverance and great efforts by our rulers. So we need to maintain the cohesion with our leaders, support them, and hold on to the beautiful values introduced by the founding fathers. We need also to empower ourselves with beneficial  knowledge, engage in fruitful work and preserve moderate Islamic culture. At the same time, we need to keep away from all forms of disunity or factionalism. Indeed Islam has warned us against  any matter that may lead to differences and conflict.
With this in mind we supplicate to Allah to bless our leadership. May Allah also help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
All praise is due to Allah as is befitting to Him. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that to be able to appreciate the blessings you have you may need to look back at the situation of our society in the past  and compare it with that of the present. Certainly we will raise the question: how were we and what has become of us now? And the obvious answer will be we used to live in poverty, fear and differences. But now, by the grace of Allah, we are living in prosperity, unity and stability.
You may also need to look at the situation of other societies, which are stricken by calamities and poverty  or endure instability  and then compare it with what we enjoy of abundant blessings, happiness and contentment.  It is worthwhile to reflect on the Hadith by our Prophet pbuh saying, "whoever among you wakes up in the morning secured in his dwelling, healthy in his body, having his food for the day, then it is as if the world has been gathered for him."
Dear Muslims,
Let us therefore take the provisions that last and work for the next life, praising Allah's blessings for we will be asked about them. Allah, the Almighty,  says, "Then you will surely be asked that Day about pleasure." (Attakathur: 8).
Let us also work hard to build our nation and cooperate with our prudent leaders in order to honour our country and maintain its leading status. One way to do this is by educating our youth about the history of their country and introducing them to how their grandfathers used to live- in hardship and adversity. This is in order for them to know about the situation in the past and compare it with that of the present. Then they can appreciate the existing assets at their true value,  grow more aware of protecting the present advantages and be even more grateful to the efforts invested by their prudent leadership and community.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to bless our Union and perpetuate on us Your generous provision, welfare and stability.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













