addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A team from the ministry of environment led by Dr Mariam al Shanasi, the assistant undersecretary for technical affairs, together with Dr Saad Addine al Numairi, the advisor to the minister of environment, visited Awqaf for a follow up action of the initiative of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, aiming to achieve a green economy that promotes sustainable development.
The meeting was attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, the executive directors and a host of officials from Awqaf.
Dr al Mazrouei greeted the ministry of environment team, and highlighted the importance of launching this strategy and other initiatives of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid that reflect his vision to ensure a brighter future for the UAE, its citizens, residents and visitors.
Dr al Shanasi, who also heads the Implementation of the UAE Green Strategy Follow up Office, briefed the audience on the goals of the strategy aimed at reducing the excessive consumption of energy. She explained the various courses of this strategy and the need for increasing the environmental awareness, including the green development.
In his speech, Dr al Mazrouei said, "this strategy complies with the goals of Islam aiming at saving energy and reducing waste. To achieve this objective, there need to be a change in the way individuals and organisations behave and interact with the environment. Moreover, the strategy is consistent with the Quranic guidance that calls for rationally engineering the land and managing life affairs on it."
For his part, Dr al Kaabi spoke of Awqaf's efforts that had contributed to increase awareness against overconsumption of water and power and promote principles of moderation, adding that Awqaf had been keen to encourage the rational use of resources although Allah, the Almighty, has blessed the UAE with plenty of bounties and a comfortable life.
Awqaf has implemented many plans to cut down on water and power waste in mosques by installing energy-saving light bulbs and water filters, turning off the light after prayers and introducing solar energy in mosques. Awqaf has also joint effort with the Municipality of Abu Dhabi to reuse ablution water for irrigatinig grass spaces around mosques.
As a result of these measures, Awqaf was able to reduce the electricity cost from AED 54 in 2010 to 33 mn in 2012, although the number of mosques had considerably increased during that period.
Awqaf achievements received wide appreciation from the Green Strategy team, which recommended integrating these successful experiences in the Awqaf's strategic plan. Dr al Shanasi said that because Awqaf is among the leading government bodies in the UAE, her team decided to visit it first in its follow up action tour.
 













