addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 First sermon
All due praise is to Allah. I praise Him as is befitting to His Majesty and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us as He says,  "O you who have believed, if you fear Allah, He will grant you a criterion and will remove from you your misdeeds and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty." (Al Anfal: 29).
Dear Muslims,
The blessings of Allah, the Almighty, on us are innumerable, which we have to acknowledge and appreciate.  By duly thanking Allah, the most Generous, we in fact express our gratitude to Him in return for His kind favours. Yet, as much as thankful we should be to Him for His generous graces, we should also be patient at adversities. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Strange are the ways of a believer for there is good in every affair of his and this is not the case with anyone else except in the case of a believer for if he has an occasion to feel delight, he thanks (God), thus there is a good for him in it, and if he gets into trouble and shows resignation (and endures it patiently), there is a good for him in it."
Very recently, we all have lived beautiful days and nights, celebrating the anniversary of the Union. We witnessed how sincere people were in expressing their joy for their country and loyalty to their leadership. We have also seen people praying to Allah to rest the late founding father in peace and grant success to the leader of their march towards further advancement.
They set a wonderful example of love and cohesion between a wise leadership and loyal citizens, one of the generous bounties Allah, the Most Exalted, has bestowed upon this country. This is further seen in the efforts made by the founding fathers to promote principles of compassion love and charity that we all should appreciate. Allah, the Almighty, says, "And whatever you have of favour - it is from Allah." (Annahl: 53).
Dear Servants of Allah,
The joys of the Union stem from the genuine love the leaders have for their citizens. It is similar to the love of a parent for his child. As such, our leaders are always keen to inquire about the situation of citizens, whether in good or bad times, pursuant to the Prophet pbuh's traditions. He said, "I am to you like a father to his son, and I teach you." Truly it cannot be otherwise since our leaders visit citizens in their homes and inquire about them. They share their joys and sorrows, cater for their needs, strive to satisfy their aspirations, and achieve their happiness. Such acts and their doers were highly praised by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "The people of correctness in this world are the people of correctness in the Next World."
This love-sincere as it is- is practically expressed through numerous educational, health and social programmes that ensure for citizens sustainable welfare. It was narrated that a person asked Abdullah Ibn Amr Ibn Al As, may Allah be pleased with him, saying "are we not amongst the destitute of the emigrants?" Abdullah, said to him "have you a spouse with whom you live?" He said "yes." He again, said "then you are amongst the rich." He said, "I have a servant also." Thereupon he (Abdullah Ibn Amr Ibn Al-As) said, "then you are amongst the kings."
Let us praise Allah, the Almighty, as He has honoured this country with wise leaders that ask about the situation of their citizens, attend to their needs, and provide for them the means for well-being. So whoever enjoys a good health, a shelter, safety and enough to live on, Allah, indeed, has blessed him with the major graces. He therefore must show appreciation by obeying Allah, the most Exalted, and keeping away from prohibitions He has ordained. 
Dear Muslims,
Our leaders do whatever they can to touch the heart of everyone with joy and happiness. They do this by being keen to know about the people's concerns and alleviating any worries or apprehension they may have. These acts-dear to Allah-will further deepen the meaning of love and strengthen the parental bond between the leadership and people.
With regard to the merits of such deeds, it was narrated that a person came to the Prophet pbuh and said to him, "O Apostle of Allah, tell us about the most people beloved to Allah? And which acts that are dearest to Allah?" Muhammad pbuh said, "the most beloved of people according to Allah is he who brings most benefit to people, and the most beloved of deeds according to Allah the Mighty, the Magnificent, is that you bring happiness to a fellow Muslim, or relieve him of distress, or pay off his debt or stave away hunger from him."
O Servants of Allah,
Our joys in the UAE shall continue and happy days shall proceed. Truly each achievement that comes forward brings more happiness and each new day that dawns heralds glad tidings for more joy, stronger unity and will, longer lasting cohesion, not to mention higher status and dignity for our country.
Please be aware that it is our duty to praise Allah day and night, secretly and openly, for all the graces he conferred upon us. May Allah have His mercy on those who planted the tree of love and sincerity and honour those who maintained it with generosity. Their kind giving has reached a noble people and nation. May Allah honour our leadership, perpetuate our compassion, increase our harmony and elevate the UAE position higher. O Allah, grant our country and all Muslim countries safety, prosperity and welfare.
May Allah also help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his Family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
 Please obey Allah and know that on the great occasion of the UAE National Day, our leadership instructed us to plant trees so the latter to be an adornment benefitting both humans and animals. Our Prophet pbuh said, "Never does a Muslim plant trees or cultivate land and birds or a man or a beast eat out of them but that is a charity on his behalf."
Thanks to such directives, our country has become a lush green oasis that is pleasant to live in. This is one more reason to thank Allah for the favours He has conferred upon us and should motivate us to further give and strive hard to protect the assets and achievements of the country. Yet, expressing joy must not push us to violate the law or bring damage to public facilities. The Prophet pbuh said, "There should be neither harming nor reciprocating harm."
Let us obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, and follow the best of manners. Let us also engage in good deeds, which bring us closer to Him, by doing and saying what pleases Him. We should always remember that this life is temporary, while the next is eternal. So whoever does good, even little, will reap its fruits not only in this life but also in the Hereafter on "The Day when there will not benefit [anyone] wealth or children. But only one who comes to Allah with a sound heart." (Ashuaraa: 88:89).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













