addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf celebrated the 41 anniversary of the UAE National Day in a ceremony held at the Abu Dhabi Theatre. It was attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Court of the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, the Executive directors and a host of people from all walks of life.
In his speech, Dr al Mazrouei, said, "on the occasion of the 41 anniversary of our Union and the foundation of the UAE, I supplicate to Allah, the Almighty, to have mercy on the founding father and the pioneer of its renaissance, the Late Sheikh Sultan bin Zayed al Nahyan and His Brothers The Late Sheikhs, to whom, after Allah, credit shall go. Truly, they laid the basis for the stability and welfare we are enjoying today.
"I would like to seize this opportunity to extend my sincere loyalty  to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Brothers, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, all Crown Princes and UAE Sheikhs. I pray to Allah to bless them all with perfect health and happiness."
He further said, "This national occasion came to remind us of the Union bounty conferred upon us. Allah, the Most Generous, has replaced our weakness with strength, our differences with harmony, our poverty with wealth, welfare and stability. Indeed The Union has built for us a state and civilisation. It has created for us a high position amongst nations and allowed us to enjoy peoples' respect and admiration. Firmly established, the Union has invested in humans, developed their potentials, raised the status of women by empowering them, and protected children.
"Our wise leadership endeavours to bring happiness to its citizens and people. The founding father, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, said, 'I am keen to give more that I have been given. I shall work to preserve the gains of the citizens and give to this nation, which has grown and developed. For the sake of this land and people, I shall work to preserve the integrity of the Union for this generation and the next ones... I shall also spare no effort for this land and its people for there is nothing more valuable than the citizen and the nation, and I shall do all what it takes to attain this end.'
This is only the tip of the iceberg for our achievements will continue as HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, said, 'By Allah's will, we look forward to broader aspirations, bearing in mind the responsibilities and tasks this progress process may imply. This is not only aimed for strengthening and developing what has been achieved but also for broadening the scope of our renaissance with new achievements'."
Other speakers discussed various aspects of the Union and its merits. Sheikh Taleb al Shehi, Preaching Department's director, for example, spoke of the Union as the path leading to the love of Allah, the Most Exalted, His Messenger, Muhammad pbuh, and ultimately to Paradise. In this regard, the Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Adhere to the Jamaa (the unified Muslim Umma), beware of separation."
Mr al Shehhi explained that in order to understand the deep meaning of the Union, it is necessary that we thank Allah, the Almighty and obey those in authority amongst us. Our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever removes himself from the Jamaa by a handspan, then he has taken Islam from his neck until he returns."
Later and on behalf of Mohammed V University, a student gave a speech in which he hailed the admiration and the loyalty to its prudent leadership.
 













