addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Mohammed V-Agdal Abu Dhabi University celebrated the 41 anniversary of the Union in a ceremony, which was held in collaboration with Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC) and Awqaf.
It was attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Court of the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the Executive director for Islamic Affairs, Dr Jihad Mohaidat, director of global partnerships at ADEC, students from the University and a host of people from all walks of life.
In his speech, Dr al Mazrouei extended his greetings to the wise leadership, saying he was pleased to see how sincere the UAE citizens were in expressing their appreciation for the achievements of the founding father, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. Dr al Mazrouei also thanked the university faculty members as well as the ceremony organisers.
He said, "The march of the Union is smoothly progressing under the wise leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, and his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, their brothers Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces."
Dr al Mazrouei prayed for the late Sheikh Zayed and other late Sheikhs, may Allah rest their souls in peace, urging students on this occasion to do all what it takes to preserve the gains achieved under the Union and raise the status of this nation higher.  
  For his part, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Court of the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi hailed the keen interest of the leadership in their citizens' welfare at all levels. "This was the main goal of the late Sheikh Zayed. He was eager to see his people assuming the right position they deserve," he said.
"Truly the result of this keen interest is visible today in so many universities and schools that have been built and one good example of this is the establishment of the Mohammed V University branch in Abu Dhabi. The latter has received support from the wise leadership with the aim of producing generations of scholars capable of promoting values of loyalty and love for the nation," he said.
Prof Dr Hamada further lauded the genius character of the late Sheikh Zayed, who was able to transform the UAE from a desert to a country that enjoys great assets of developments in a short span of time. He added that many countries might have taken them ages to achieve the same.
A number of students from the Mohammed V University also gave speeches in which they stressed the values of love and loyalty to the leadership and nation. They highlighted the great achievements made during the Union, namely the stability, social and economic welfare.  













