addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf approved the architectural design proposed by Next Engineering Consultants (Next) for the construction of its branch in Al Ain. HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, signed the contract on behalf of Awqaf, while Eng Nazih Marquiz, Next's CEO, signed on behalf of the engineering company.
In a statement, Dr al Kaabi, said that the plan meets the government specifications in terms of green buildings, clean environment based on solar energy and comfortable spaces for employees and the public, natural lighting and ventilation systems.
The building features a mix of Islamic and modern design that marks the trend towards a homogenous architecture in UAE.
"Al Ain has the highest number of mosques and Waqf assets in the UAE. Because this design has some authentic Islamic features as well as a beautiful modern architecture, it will be used later as a template for other branches across the country," Dr al Kaabi said.
For his part, Mr Marquiz said the front walls merge the Islamic heritage features like arches and decorative sculptures with modern styles of architecture, such as the use of large spaces covered with glass.
The building spans a total area of 3180 sqm, and consists of a ground and two floors. Its lobby will be accentuated by a luxury finishings, height, decoration, lighting and ample space. The building will accommodate a multi-purpose hall with a capacity of 120 persons in addition to two workshop rooms, two meeting rooms, a library space for Awqaf researchers and preachers.
As far as the environment specifications, there will be an indoor garden at the internal lobby and a green space on the roof as well as an outdoor garden of about 1000 sqm around the building. The use of solar energy will be taken into account while the electricity, lighting, air-conditioning and ventilation installation work is underway.
The project cost amounts to about AED 9 mn and is expected to be completed in 18 months as of the contract signature date.
 
 













