addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All due praise is to Allah, the Perfect, the Source of Peace and Safety. I extol him for His countless blessings upon us. And I bear witness there is no deity except Allah, having no partners.  I also testify that Muhammad-the best of Creation- is His Servant and His Apostle. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his Family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us as He says, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Muslims,
Please bear in mind that the hope of every believer in this life is to please Allah and ultimately win a place in Paradise. This is the dwelling of people of intelligence and good deeds. For its sake, the righteous would engage in acts of worship day and night. After all, who does not wish to have an abode in such a place as wide as heavens and earth?
Paradise is described as a place endowed with such excellent things as no eye has ever seen, nor an ear has ever heard nor a human heart has ever perceived. Its soil is of saffron, its stones of pearls and rubies, and its structure of gold and silver bricks. Whoever is there will never be poor or unhappy, nor immortal. Neither his youth nor his clothes will dwindle. There are rivers and fruits, of which Allah Alone knows. This is not to mention its comfort, which has no like on earth.
 To those entering Paradise Allah says, "[To whom Allah will say], 'O My servants, no fear will there be concerning you this Day, nor will you grieve, [You] who believed in Our verses and were Muslims. Enter Paradise, you and your kinds, delighted.' Circulated among them will be plates and vessels of gold. And therein is whatever the souls desire and [what] delights the eyes, and you will abide therein eternally. And that is Paradise which you are made to inherit for what you used to do. For you therein is much fruit from which you will eat." (Azzukhruf: 68-73).
O Believers,
There are many acts that will lead believers to Paradise. About them, the Prophet pbuh said, "O people, exchange greetings of peace (i.e., say: Assalamu Alaykum to one another), feed people, strengthen the ties of kinship, and be in prayer when others are asleep, you will enter Janna in peace."
As you many notice, spreading greetings (Assalam), meaning peace, is one of the first acts mentioned and is, in fact, the core mission of Islam: promoting peace. It comes to nurture love, and keeps rancour at bay. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "Spread the greeting to people and you will be safe." It is also a sign of modesty which raises the rank of the individual, for Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "spread peace for you to rise in status."
O Believers,
Please know that our Prophet pbuh highlighted spreading peace as an element fostering kindness amongst people and leading to Paradise. He pbuh said, "you shall not enter Paradise so long as you do not affirm belief (in all those things which are the articles of faith) and you will not believe as long as you do not love one another. Should I not direct you to a thing which, if you do, will foster love amongst you: (i. e.) give currency to (the practice of paying salutation to one another by saying) Assalamu Alaykum."
With this in mind, we need to greet people we come across just the way Sahaba (the Companions) did. Ibn Umar, may Allah be satisfied with him, for example, would go to the market only for saluting people. He said, "I would go to the market for no purpose than to greet and be greeted by people."
Dear Muslims,
A second set of deeds leading to Paradise as mentioned by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh is offering food to family, neighbours, friends, and the needy. This is likely to foster love and eliminate disparities. About its virtue, he pbuh said, "offering food will enable you to enter Paradise."
Ibn Al Mubarak, may Allah rest his soul in peace, would desire to eat some food, but he would rather prepare it for his guest and share it with him.
Indeed, offering food to the needy is amongst the good manners that will make the poor feel they have not been ignored by the rich. In return, they will appreciate their heartfelt treatment and pray to Allah to increase His bounties upon them. This way jealousy is attenuated amongst people, hence increasing their satisfaction and communion. Ibn Umar, may Allah be satisfied with him, used to fast and break his fast with the poor and orphans. 
On a related note, our Prophet pbuh associated spreading greetings with offering food, for both of them are acts of charity. He pbuh further explained that the priority should be given to relatives, emphasising that observing ties of kinship strengthens social bonds and maintains love between Muslims. He pubh said, "strengthen the ties of kinship."
 Allah, the most Magnificent, says, "And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs." (Annisaa: 1). Here it is clear that parents should be given utmost priority, then the relative next in degree, and so on. Observing bonds of kinship is a lifetime duty, especially if relatives are busy, apart from each other, or if they are not in good terms. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "The person who perfectly maintains the ties of kinship is not the one who does it because he gets recompensed by his relatives (for being kind and good to them), but the one who truly maintains the bonds of kinship is the one who persists in doing so even though the latter has severed the ties of kinship with him."
In the same regard, Abu Dharr, may Allah be satisfied with him, narrated that Hibbi advised him about five among which he mentioned observing ties of kinship even though they were cut.
Truly we do need to maintain such values of spreading greetings, offering food and observing bonds of kinship. Moreover, we need to strongly encourage our children to adopt these manners so they can themselves, pass them on to future generations. May Allah grant us Your favour and make us amongst those who promote greetings, feed people, honour ties of kinship, and stand at night for prayer.
May Allah also help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his Family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and know that a Muslim should affirm his connection with his Creator through acts of worship. The most important of these is standing at night for prayer as Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "They used to sleep but little of the night, and in the hours before dawn they would ask forgiveness." (Adhariyat: 17-18). Yet this should be done with no intention of showing off.
Thus, if a Muslim is used to observing it, even for sometime every night, his conditions may change for the better. He will be able to get over his worries, feel Allah's proximity and relish the sweetness of faith. Jibreel (Gibrael) (may peace be upon him) informed the Prophet Muhammad pbuh saying, "you have to know the honour of the believer is when he is awake at night praying."
Standing at night for prayer starts after Ishaa (nightfall prayer) and till Fajr (Dawn prayer) and the best time for it is at the last third of the night.
Dear Servants of Allah, 
Allah has commanded you an order to which He and His angels are both committed, when He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













