addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Speech of HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman
The 41 anniversary of the Union came to mark the establishment of our nation, an event that has brought the founding fathers and our leaders together. It has also united our people under one flag, pursuant to Allah's order: "And hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together." All of the Emirates have always hailed the founding of the nation, for it, indeed, is the most important milestone in our history.
Today as our statehood stands with a bright record of achievements seen in its rising civilisation, prosperity, ambitious aspirations and strong foundations, we would like to extend our sincere gratitude and loyalty to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, their brothers Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, his trustworthy Crown Prince, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. We would like also to stress that their wise guidance has led us towards stronger cohesion and comprehensive development.
HH Sheikh Khalifa' s orders to plant a date palm in front of mosques and schools highlights further the virtues of giving, and brings into focus the special status of this tree. It is highly regarded as an element that shapes the memory of people and glories of a nation. Its symbolic nature apart, the palm tree is also a generous blessing from Allah. Its fruit is nutritious and is mentioned in the holy Quran.
Moreover, planting this blessed tree is a living symbol of the noble goals of our wise leadership for different generations, young and elderly. It is also an act where devotion to the nation and loyalty to the leadership go hand in hand with faith, education and national culture.
Truly, the love for the nation is a virtue in our religion and the harmony between the leadership and people is a grace, key to security, glory and continuity.
So please allow me Your Highness Sheikh Khalifa and all UAE leaders to thank you for all the good you have done to this nation. Indeed no new days dawns without us seeing new edifices erected and the date palms of our nation blossomed. Worshippers in mosques will always pray for you and for the founding fathers. Truly neither can the houses of Allah be maintained without your continuous support, nor the Tree of the Union can grow or prosper without you leading the march of wisdom, renaissance, and prosperity. 
Speech of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general
Planting date palms will further adorn the environment of our mosques and Union.
"But as for the favour of your Lord, report [it]," so the holy verse says. Truly, do we have any blessings after the faith in Allah greater than the Union and loyalty to our Leadership? I bet not.  The modern UAE enjoys solid foundations, ones that have given forth unified goals, leading the nation to steady progress and advancement. Since the state foundation, the building of the nation has never stopped. Giving and welfare has flourished too. So today we are reaping the fruits of the great achievements and cherishing blessing times under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
He said, "the noble values and ideals of the UAE society enhance our confidence that we are on the right path towards achieving our goals, as long as we are united as one family where the leadership and people are bound together by mutual admiration and respect." As we are celebrating the Union 41 Anniversary, Awqaf is always committed to this vision and is keen to translate the wise leadership's strategy.
Awqaf excels in the construction and maintenance of mosques, and promotes the sustainable development of endowments' investments. It also enhances cultural development by highlighting contemporary and moderate principles. Moreover, Awqaf endorses tolerance, best values and ethics in matters of Fatwa and preaching. And as for the love for the nation, it has been all sincere and loyal.
The five thousand Minbars (pulpit) in five thousand mosques across the UAE are minarets of guidance. Thanks to Allah and the relentless support from the prudent leadership, our mosques stand as civilsational edifices that disseminate morality. Through various modern media, they also boost the leadership's wisdom aiming at promoting communication, cooperation and solidarity amongst members of the community, be they individuals or organisations, whether locally, regionally or internationally.
Now our mosques will be further adorned thanks to such a special Union Tree, cherished by mosque goers.
On another note, Awqaf's website has done well and become one of the most important tools of communication in the e-government. For its part, the Official Fatwa Centre is the most advanced of its kind worldwide in terms of the mechanism of issuing accurate Fatwa that is both observing of Fiqh principles and reflective of contemporary issues. Thanks to these achievements, Awqaf won this year a number of national, Arab and international awards.
This is what we learnt from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan the UAE President, may Allah protect him, His Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Court, Rulers of The Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.   
On this occasion, we would like to emphasise our leaders' guidance and express it in terms of loyalty to them, to this nation and to its people.
 













