addthis_pub="newawqaf";















On the occasion of the 41 Anniversary of the Union, Awqaf took a new initiative titled "Congratulation and allegiance" to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
The central part of this action is a message to HH Sheikh Khalifa, may Allah protect him, signed so far by more than 4530 scholars, Muftis, religious jurists, preachers, Khateebs, Imams, Muezzins, holy Quran teachers, Islamic studies students and academics. Signatories represent the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai, the Islamic Affairs Department in Sharjah in addition to many bodies across the UAE.
"This initiative is very significant. It expresses such a great respect and sincere gratitude scholars and Islamic studies students community hold for the UAE and its wise leadership, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, their brothers Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces," said HE Dr Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman.
He added: "this action is a token of acknowledgment to the leadership's remarkable efforts in all fields following in the footsteps of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan and other founding leaders, may Allah rest their souls in peace."
The message came to further highlight the highest sense of appreciation for the UAE leadership's keen interest in supporting scholarship and scholars, promoting authentic values of the UAE society, and maintaining mosques. The latter have seen their number increased and become endowed with quality equipment and facilities. This has allowed them to undertake effectively their role in educating worshippers. The holy Quran teaching and learning has also thrived thanks to the generous support from our wise leaders seen in terms of building many Quranic memorisation centres, printing the holy Quran, and the organisation of national and international memorisation and recitation contests. 
Islamic studies students and scholars also praised directives of the UAE leadership to establish Fatwa centres and committees across the UAE and their generous support for the development of Waqf. The latter has grown tremendously and now covers various sectors, including, but not limited to, education, health, social care, and many fields of humanitarian assistance.
Following is the text of the message signed by Islamic studies students and scholars' community in the UAE:
Your Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan
President of the UAE, may Allah protect you.
Congratulation and Allegiance
We take great pleasure and pride to extend to you our most sincere greetings on the occasion of the 41 Anniversary of the Union.
Indeed, the founding father, the  late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan along with his brothers the late Rulers of the Emirates, may Allah rest their souls in peace, built for us a strong nation, brought us glory and united us under one flag, pursuant to Allah's order: "And hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together."
The Union shall remain a source of pride and inspiration for every citizen and resident, as well as anyone with a sound mind and sensible attitude, for Your Highness and Your Brothers Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates and all the Sheikhs are steering the wheel of the Union wisely and assuredly.
We seize this opportunity to express our gratitude to your generous support to scholarship and scholars, and highlight the mutual admiration and respect existing between Your Highness and your people. About this our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "The best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke God's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them."
We hereby pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant you success and protect you for this nation as a building leader and a compassionate father. As we say this we would also like to renew our allegiance and commitment to Your Highness and to this beloved nation.
Signed by
Scholars, Muftis, religious jurists, preachers
Khateebs, Imams, Muezzins
Holy Quran teachers, Islamic studies students in the UAE
 













