addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf participates in ESRI (MEAUC), which was held at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre from December 10 to 12, 2012 under the patronage of Abu Dhabi government and in partnership with Abu Dhabi Systems and Information Centre (ADSIC).
More than 1500 experts and decision makers from all over the world attended the largest geographical information systems conference at the level of the Middle East and Africa. ESRI was a good opportunity for participants to learn about the future of geospatial technology and the extent of its impact on the region.
The conference was also an opportunity for participants to exchange their experiences and strategies on how to develop GIS services provided by public and private organisations.
Many authorities and government institutions from inside and outside UAE were invited, including the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments, which was represented by Ms Mariam Rashid Al Braiki, director of IT department. Awqaf's participation in the conference was part of its plan to implement the UAE Federal E-government strategy and its keen interest to deliver the best services to members of the community. It displayed four search services designed for determining the locations of mosques, holy Quran memorisation centres, Waqf representatives and money donation boxes under Awqaf's administration.
The four search services are accessible through an interactive map guide available on Awqaf's website: www.awqaf.gov.ae.
It is worthwhile mentioning that the interactive map guide service falls in the framework of the government plans to improve public services, especially the e-government comprehensive strategy as per the directives of the wise UAE leadership to build an integrated geographical information infrastructure and increase the level access to the geospatial information of government and private institutions.
This move is also expected to enrich Awqaf web content and diversify its e-services with the aim of supporting decision-making processes and further improving interaction with members of the community.
 
 













