addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All due praise is to Allah. I praise Him as is befitting to His Majesty and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us as He says, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Muslims,
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "The five (daily) Salat (prayers) and the Friday (prayer) to the Friday (prayer) expiate whatever (minor sins) may be committed in between, so long as major sins are avoided." On this great day, Allah prescribed for Muslims to leave matters of life and gather for Jumaa prayer pursuant to His orders: "O you who have believed, when [the Adhan] is called for the prayer on the day of Jumuaa [Friday], then proceed to the remembrance of Allah and leave trade. That is better for you, if you only knew." (Al Jumuaa: 9).
On Friday, Allah would grant Muslims a time during which the doors of heaven open and supplications are accepted. About this, Allah's Apostle pbuh said, "there is a time on Friday at which a Muslim, while he is offering Salat and is supplicating, will be granted whatever he is asking for."
O Believers,
The Friday prayer is very important and has its own etiquette. So, each Muslim should observe them, for example, by washing himself and applying perfume. Our prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "If anyone takes a bath on Friday, puts on his best clothes, applies a touch of perfume if has any, then goes to congregational prayer (in the mosque), and takes care not to step over people, then prayer what Allah has prescribed for him, then keeps silent from the time his Imam comes out until he finishes his prayer, it will atone for his sins during the previous week."
To attend Jumaa prayer, it is also recommended for Muslims to choose the cleanest, most beautiful and appropriate clothes.  Aisha (the wife of the Prophet), may Allah be pleased with her, narrated that the people used to come from their abodes and from Al Awali (i.e., outskirts of Medina up to a distance of four miles or more from Medina). They used to pass through dust and used to be drenched with sweat and covered with dust; so sweat used to trickle from them. One of them came to Allah's Apostle who was in my house. The Prophet said to him, "I wish that you keep yourself clean on this day of yours (i.e., take a bath)."
In yet another Hadith, he pbuh said, "What is the harm if any of you has two garments, if he can provide them, for Friday (prayer) in addition to the two garments for his daily work?"
On the way to the mosque, Muslims are advised to recite Takbir (repetitive recitation of Allahu Akbar-Allah is Greater) in preparation for Khutba (sermon) and Salat. Abu Huraira reported: "If someone does Ghusl for major ritual impurity on the day of Jumuaa and then goes in the first part of the time, it is as if he had offered up a camel. If he goes in the second part of the time, it is as if he had offered up a cow. If he goes in the third part of the time, it is as if he had offered up a horned ram. If he goes in the fourth part of the time, it is as if he had offered up a hen. If he goes in the fifth part of the time, it is as if he had offered up an egg. And when the imam comes out, the angels settle down listening to the Dhikr (remembrance of Allah)."
Dear Servants of Allah,
On this day, it is very rewarding to recite the holy Quran, especially Surat Al Khaf. Our guide Muhammad pbuh said, "Whoever reads Surat Al Kahf on Fridays, there will be a bright light to shine for him between the two Fridays." It is also rewarding to pray on the Prophet Muhammad pbuh, as he said, "One of the best of your days is Friday. On this day, Adam was created and on this day he died, on this day the Trumpet will be blown, and on this day all creatures will swoon. So send a great deal of Salat upon me on this day, for your Salat will be presented to me."
They said: "O Messenger of Allah pbuh, how will our Salat be presented to you when you have decomposed (after death)?" He said: "Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, has forbidden the earth to consume the bodies of the prophets, peace be upon them."
It is forbidden for worshippers to go over other worshippers' shoulders when trying to reach other rows in the mosque. It was narrated that a man came and stepped over the people while the Prophet pbuh was giving the sermon on Friday. The Prophet pbuh addressed him saying, "Sit down, you have annoyed (the people)."
Worshippers should also listen attentively to the Khutba, being a cause for wiping evil deeds. Salman Al Farsi, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that the Prophet pbuh said, "whoever takes a bath on Friday, purifies himself as much as he can, then applies whatever (hair) oil or perfumes available in his house, then proceeds (for the Jumaa prayer) and does not separate two persons sitting together (in the mosque), then prays as much as (Allah has) written for him and then remains silent while the Imam is delivering the Khutba, his sins in-between the present and the last Friday would be forgiven."
To show due respect for Friday Khutba, our Prophet pbuh forbade Muslims from speaking to each other while the Imam is on the pulpit delivering the sermon, even if it is for an advice. On the narration of Abu Huraira that the Prophet pbuh said, "if you ask your friend to listen to the Khutba, you will lose your reward."
Thus, Muslims should stay focused and let no distraction bother them, like, playing with their mobile phones talking to persons sitting beside them or asking a question even if it is related to the Khutba. "Ataa bin Yasar narrated from Ubayy bin Kaab: "the Messenger of Allah pbuh recited Tabarak (Surat Al Mulk) on Friday, while he was standing and reminding us of the Days of Allah (i.e., preaching to us). 
"Abu Dardaa or Abu Dharr raised an eyebrow at me and said, 'when was this Surat revealed? for I have not heard it before now.' He (Ubayy) gestured to him that he should remain silent. When they finished, he said, 'I asked you when this Surat revealed and you did not answer me.' Ubayy said, 'you gained nothing from your prayer except the idle talk that you engaged in.' He went to the Prophet pbuh and told him about that and what Ubayy had said to him. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, 'Ubayy spoke the truth.'"
In another account, he pbuh added: "when you hear your Imam speaking, then keep quiet and listen attentively until he has finished."
With this in mind, we seek Allah to help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his Family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Believers, obey Allah and be aware that Friday is a day of celebration and happiness. After performing the congregational prayer, worshippers go back to their families, meet friends and neighbours, warmly welcoming them with a gentle smile and goodly word and visiting the patients amongst them. It is very rewarding to share with them what they have heard and learnt from the sermon.
Ibn Masood, may Allah be pleased with him, reported: "I heard the Messenger of Allah pbuh saying, 'May Allah freshen the affairs of a person who hears something from us and communicates it to others exactly as he has heard it (i.e., both the meaning and the words). Many a recipient of knowledge understands it better than the one who has heard it." This way the Khutba will benefit the whole community.
Dear Servants of Allah, 
Allah has commanded you an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Allah and His angels send blessings on the Prophet: O ye that believe! Send ye blessings on him, and salute him with all respect." (Al Ahzab : 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, meaning: "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 













