addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)

First sermon
All the praises and thanks be to Allah. I do praise Him as is befitting to His Magnificence and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
I urge you and myself to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us just as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
To show appreciation for others in return for their kindness, Muslims are urged to express it through words and feelings of gratitude. Allah the Almighty says "Indeed, our Lord is Forgiving and Appreciative." (Fatir: 34). He also says, "Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Appreciative." (Ashura: 23).
Being grateful is a virtue that Allah, the Most Exalted, loves to see in his Servants. He, therefore, bestows His bounties upon His Servants, for them to thank Him and remember Him. Allah, may glory be to him, says, "And Allah has extracted you from the wombs of your mothers not knowing a thing, and He made for you hearing and vision and intellect that perhaps you would be grateful." (Annahl: 78).
It was narrated in a Hadith that Allah, the most Exalted, appreciated a person's act and forgave him as a result. Abu Huraira, may Allah be pleased with him, reported Allah's Messenger pbuh as saying, "while a person was going along the path he found a thorny branch upon it. He pushed it to a side and Allah approved (this action) of his and (as a mark of appreciation) granted him pardon."
Truly, thanking people is a highly valued human virtue and moral decreed in Islam. Allah, the Almighty, says, "Be grateful to Me and to your parents; to Me is the [final] destination." (Luqman: 14). Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh linked the act of thanking Allah, the most Exalted, with thanking people, just as he says, "whoever is not grateful to the people is not grateful to Allah."
It was reported from some scholars that Allah, the most Exalted, will not accept His servants' gratitude to Him, if they are ungrateful to people's favours to them, for each matter is linked to the other. However, Allah, the Almighty, has promised the grateful amongst His servants a great reward when He says, "But Allah will reward the grateful." (Al Imarn: 144).
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh taught us ways to do so, by for example compensating those who acted kindly to us or praying for them. He pbuh said, "whoever does you a favour, then reciprocate, and if you cannot, then supplicate for him until you think that you have repaid him." Saying good words is one more way among many to show appreciation. Usama bin Zaid narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "whoever has some good done to him, and he says, 'may Allah reward you in goodness' then he has done the most that he can of praise."
Yet, expressing gratitude should be as much for numerous favours as for little. Al Nuaman Ibn Basheer reported Allah's Messenger pbuh, while on the pulpit, as saying, "The one who is not grateful for little is not grateful for plenty." In the same regard, one of the pious said, "appreciation, even if it is little, will compensate kindness even though it is plentiful."
On a related note, our Prophet pbuh taught us also to think of and thank a big section of workers who may go unnoticed because of the simple jobs they do and the modest life they lead. It was narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira, may Allah be pleased with him, that a dark-complexioned woman used to sweep the mosque. The Messenger of Allah pbuh missed her and ask about her. People told him that she died. Thereupon, he said, "lead me to her grave." They led him to that place where he said prayer over her.
O Servants of Allah,
Please ponder how our Prophet pbuh would award this category of people, who perform some kind of jobs that some people may consider as commonplace. He pbuh rather offered to intercede for them by praying over them. He pbuh said, "verily these graves are full of darkness for their dwellers. Verily the Mighty and Glorious Allah illuminates them for their occupants by reason of my prayer over them."
Moreover, our Master pbuh would ask about the situation of people working with him. Thus he would treat them to food and pray for them. He once prayed for his servant Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, to gain the reward of both this life and the next. He pbuh said, "O Allah! Give him (i.e., Anas) property and children and bless him." Thus Anas Ibn Malik was one of the richest among the Ansar and during his lifetime more than 120 of his offspring died.
O Believers,
Islam holds in high esteem any work, no matter how simple may seem as long as it contributes to the progress of the society. The Prophet pbuh said, "Iman has over seventy or over sixty branches, the uppermost of which is the declaration: none has the right to be worshipped save Allah and the least of which is the removal of harmful objects from the road."
This is because the enterprise of populating the earth requires the genius of the scientist, the wealth of the businessman and the managerial skills of the executive. But still such a mission needs an equal input from the worker, who works with his hands to bring into focus the meanings of beauty and highlight the value of work.
 Indeed the magnificent edifices and the towering buildings cannot be materialised without such tasks as lifting stones, planting trees and removing harm from the road undertaken by labourers. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh pointed out to the value of their work and deserving rewards. He said, "your removing stones, thorns and bones from people's path is Sadaqa (act of charity)."
Bearing this in mind, we seek Allah to help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Him, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure Family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Obey Allah and know that nations do not progress except through the combined efforts of their citizens and residents in all types of jobs and professions. Therefore we need to follow the example of our Prophet Muhammad pbuh in looking after labourers by understanding their situation and asking about them. We need also to be kind to them through good words and gentle smile. Furthermore it falls on us to encourage them and thank them in recognition for their contributions.
In the light of these Islamic principles, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah protect him, has launched "Thank You" campaign to thank and honour the general service workers. So let us put this imitative into action by paying tribute to this category of our community comprising janitors, gardeners, construction workers, drivers, among others. This is an opportunity to acknowledge their efforts and tell them in simple words: "Thank you and may Allah reward you." 
O Believers,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab : 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says,"And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).














