addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Red Crescent Authority (RCA) and Awqaf signed yesterday at the RCA headquarters a MoU to build ten mosques in the Western Region at a cost of AED 20 mn, two million dirhams for each. According to the agreement, the RCA finances the construction of the mosques while Awqaf supervises their implementation.
The MoU is part of the two Authorities' efforts to strengthen their partnership with the aim of providing services to a large section of the community. It specifies different implementation mechanisms and the obligations of each party.
HE Ahmed Humaid al Mazrouei, chairman of the RCA's Board of Directors, signed the MoU on behalf of the RCA, while on behalf of Awqaf HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman. The ceremony was attended by Mr Mohammed Yusuf Mohammed al Fahim, deputy secretary general for support services at the RCA, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, and Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director for Islamic affairs.
On this occasion, both sides discussed ways of encouraging cooperation and partnership in humanitarian and charitable fields through joint-efforts. The aim is to establish development projects that serve wider target audience inside the UAE and promote development projects in the Western Region initiated and supervised by HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Ruler's Representative in the Western Region and the RCA's Chairman.
They also highlighted their close vision and goals on how to achieve their social responsibility at the local level. Moreover, they stressed that the present time calls for this kind of partnerships with the aim of meeting the increasing needs for charitable action and the requirements for development nationwide.
In a press statement, Mr Ahmed al Mazrouei said that the initiative with which the RCA had started the new year is of crucial importance. It will boost its development efforts locally and enlarge fields of cooperation with Awqaf. This partnership project consists of building ten mosques in the Western Region at a total cost of AED 20 mn funded by the RCA and implemented by Awqaf.
Mr Ahmed al Mazrouei explained that this civilisation project would add to other ongoing programmes of development in various cities in the Western region, which are being personally supervised by HH Sheikh Hamdan out of his keenness to ensure decent living and all basic services to the population there. He also explained that since the Red Crescent Authority supports other government Authorities, it would spare no efforts in order to achieve the noble goals of the UAE wise leadership.
He added that the RCA enjoys strong relations with many large entities and bodies in the UAE, Awqaf being one of its most important partner institutions in field of humanitarian action locally. This partnership has resulted in the promotion and revival of the concept of Waqf among individuals and organisations for both Authorities seek to achieve similar visions and goals.
Mr Ahmed Al Mazrouei explained that charitable Waqf programmes had laid solid foundation for the humanitarian and charitable action in the UAE, saying this will continue to be the backbone of philanthropy in the UAE. Such a tradition had been put in place by the late father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. The same path is being followed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
Praising the kind contributions of leading philanthropists, Mr Ahmed Al Mazrouei further explained that Waqf projects yields good revenues to fund various charitable programmes and ensure their continuity. This in return helps fulfill the humanitarian responsibility and meet the increasing requirements of such action.  
Finally, he lauded the role of Awqaf in building mosques nationwide following latest architectural designs, restoring the old ones, and replacing the caravans. He also highlighted initiatives taken by Awqaf to promote religious awareness, maintain mosques and the holy Quran memorisation centres and invest in Waqf in the best interest of the community.
For his part, Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei said that the UAE wise leadership had early been interested in mosques and their role in the society as well as in Waqf. For this purpose it has called upon donors to take part in endowment programmes and support initiatives related to them. It has also promoted principles and values that urge individuals to contribute to this act of charity in accordance to the Islamic teachings.
In this regard, he mentioned that the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, was the first to offer a building as an endowment in Abu Dhabi, adding that HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces continuously support mosque affairs in the country.
Dr Hamdan explained that Awqaf would remain a bridge connecting donors with the charity needs at the local level by encouraging members of the community to sponsor charitable Waqf projects. He also thanked philanthropists for the trust they place in Awqaf by their continuous support to its activities.
On another note, he praised the role of the RCA under the chairmanship of HH Sheikh Hamdan in maintaining the houses of Allah and endorsing the campaign titled: "Mosques are our civilisation landmarks," as well as the "Mafhas Al Qatah" programme launched earlier by Awqaf.
He said that the RCA is one of the main supporters of Awqaf plans to build mosques all over the UAE, referring in this regard to its role in replacing caravan mosques with [concrete building] mosques.
Dr Hamdan also spoke of the RCA's role in mobilising the support of donors to build mosques and maintain them through its various activities. He mentioned that philanthropists highly acknowledge the role of Awqaf and its keen interest in undertaking this role.
Given the mosques' special status, he stated that both sides were working together to upgrade their appearances so they can further achieve their religious and social mission. He concluded by saying that the UAE wise leadership is keen to give the opportunity for everyone wishing to contribute to the efforts of building and maintaining the houses of Allah.
 













