addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In collaboration with Awqaf, the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research (ECSSR) carried out the second opinion poll for 2012. The study covered several factors related to the level of satisfaction with Awqaf services by various stakeholders. The latter comprised  individuals, partner institutions, customers and suppliers. The survey also analysed the job satisfaction of Awqaf employees and presented the results of the mystery shopper report.
The survey is among the tools Awqaf uses to assess the results of its plans in order to come up with an evolving methodology for serving the religion, the nation and the community, maintaining mosques, investing in Waqf revenues and ultimately achieving its religious and civilisation mission.
The surveyed Awqaf clients were grouped in categories, such as mosque goers, Fatwa seekers, Haj and Umra operators, students from the holy Quran memorisation centres, pilgrims, Waqf donors and philanthropists. According to the survey results, 82.5 per cent of respondents said they were satisfied with Awqaf's services, a significant value increase compared to a similar report in 2011, with mosques receiving this year an 85.1 per cent appraisal.
Descriptively, 85.6 per cent of customers surveyed found various services by Awqaf were easy to obtain  Another 88.2 per cent of interviewees considered Awqaf services conveniently accessible through available channels of communication. And a majority of 90.6 per cent of customers mentioned that they were pleased with the quality of customer service provided by staff.
For their part, strategic partners and suppliers-the latter being forty in total, stated that they were satisfied about Awqaf by 88.5 per cent and 94.9 per cent, respectively. Internally, members of staff said that they had a job satisfaction of 84.6 per cent.
The mystery shopper analysis based on a questionnaire for collecting information about SMS, email, Awqaf website and the Official Fatwa Centre resulted in an overall rating of 78 per cent.
Overall, Awqaf obtained more than 85 per cent improvement rating, which is a positive indicator of progress. On this occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, said that even though such a result was high along the strategic development scale of any organisation, Awqaf would thoroughly seek to reach the highest standards in serving Islam in terms of thought and practice as well as highlighting the UAE noble values.
Dr al Kaabi added: "we are promising the wise and generous leadership and the UAE community to continue excelling in performance. In doing so, we shall remain fully aware of the social and international realities that we are not isolated from. We are also looking forward to the future with [full assurance] that we can cope with [its challenges]. On this occasion we would like to extend our sincere thank to the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research in Abu Dhabi for its valuable help."
 













