addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All the praises and thanks be to Allah. I do praise Him as is befitting to His Magnificence and I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious and do construct our lives in accordance to what Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us just as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will [then] give you a double portion of His mercy and make for you a light by which you will walk and forgive you; and Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (Al Hadid: 28).
Dear Muslims,
Faith in Allah is the pillar of Islam and its solid foundation. It is a safety net for the anxious, a glad tiding for the pious, and one's guidance to the truth. Allah the Almighty says, "And whoever believes in Allah - He will guide his heart." (Attaghabun: 11). Believing in Him came as an order, which Allah has also made it a cause for believers to attain guidance and wisdom. He, the Most Exalted, says, "So let them respond to Me [by obedience] and believe in Me that they may be [rightly] guided." (Al Baqara: 186).
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh used to ask Allah to make faith dear to his heart, saying "O Allah, make Iman (faith in Allah) beloved to us and precious in our hearts, and make disbelief, sinfulness and disobedience detestable to us, and make us amongst the rightly-guided ones."
When he pbuh was asked by one of his Companions, may Allah be pleased with them, for a short but all-inclusive advice. He guided him to the faith in Allah the Almighty, and urged him to act accordingly.
It was narrated on the authority of Sufyan Ibn Abdullah al Thaqafi that he said, "I asked the Messenger of Allah to tell me about Islam a thing which might dispense with the necessity of my asking anybody after you, (or other than you in another version of the same Hadith." He pbuh remarked: "say I affirm my faith in Allah and then remain steadfast to it."
Yet faith in Allah must be lived and felt in life through consistent acts of worships and good deeds. Allah the Almighty says, "Indeed, those who have believed and done righteous deeds - indeed, We will not allow to be lost the reward of any who did well in deeds." (Al Kahf: 30). Describing faith, al Hasan al Basri said, "Faith is neither appearance nor mere wishes. It is what you have in your heart which is confirmed by your deeds."
Dear Servants of Allah,
About the characteristics of believers, Allah says, "Certainly will the believers have succeeded: They who are during their prayer humbly submissive, and they who turn away from ill speech, and they who are observant of Zakah, and they who guard their private parts, except from their wives or those their right hands possess, for indeed, they will not be blamed - but whoever seeks beyond that, then those are the transgressors - and they who are to their trusts and their promises attentive, and they who carefully maintain their prayers - those are the inheritors, who will inherit al-Firdaus. They will abide therein eternally. (Al Muaminun: 1-11).
The true believer is therefore he whose heart becomes humbly submissive at the remembrance of Allah, Glory and Might be to Him. And when he comes to hear what comes down of the truth in the Holy Quran, he surrenders to the will of his Creator and obeys. Thus his faith increases, encouraging him further to do good and supplicate to Allah, the most Exalted, to grant him pardon and higher status.
Allah the Almighty says, "The believers are only those who, when Allah is mentioned, their hearts become fearful, and when His verses are recited to them, it increases them in faith; and upon their Lord they rely - The ones who establish prayer, and from what We have provided them, they spend. Those are the believers, truly. For them are degrees [of high position] with their Lord and forgiveness and noble provision." (Al Anfal: 2-4).
Faith is a feeling of love for Allah, the All Knowing, that fills the believer's heart and binds it to none but his Creator. A believer should therefore let nothing avert him from the way of Allah, as He the Almighty says, "And [yet], among the people are those who take other than Allah as equals [to Him]. They love them as they [should] love Allah. But those who believe are stronger in love for Allah." (Al Baqara: 165).
Dear Muslims,
The true believer keeps on performing acts of worship and avoids earning his living through any way that might displease Allah. He does so because he believes in and relies on his Creator. What is more, his faith makes him rise above looking at what others have.
Thus if he faces hard times, he seeks refuge with Allah, acknowledging obedience to Him alone and pleading to Him. Allah the Almighty says, "And seek help through patience and prayer, and indeed, it is difficult except for the humbly submissive [to Allah]." (Al Baqara: 45).
When standing before Allah, the true believer will put trust in Him and express in words his acceptance of what Allah has decreed for him as fate and destiny, pursuant to the verse: "Say, "Never will we be struck except by what Allah has decreed for us; He is our protector." And upon Allah let the believers rely." (Attawba: 51). He will also supplicate to Allah saying: "Allah will suffice me and He is the best guardian."
The believer's trust in Allah will further ascertain his faith, granting him persistence in this life and the next, just as Allah says, "Allah keeps firm those who believe, with the firm word, in worldly life and in the Hereafter." (Ibrahim: 27). Thus, neither will he be affected by the calamities he is facing, nor will he be upset by a loss of some advantages at certain time.
On this matter, Allah, the most Exalted, says, "And We will surely test you with something of fear and hunger and a loss of wealth and lives and fruits, but give good tidings to the patient." (Al Baqara: 155). This means that the believer should not pray to Allah for the sole purpose of obtaining worldly gains. This is the case of someone, who tends to be grateful to Allah if he receives some benefits, but he turns to be unthankful if none of that comes soon.
The true believer should rather seek Allah's favour for winning proximity to Him and ultimately His forgiveness. So if Allah grants him bounties, he must praise Him, yet he must remain patient if that comes late.
Dear Servants of Allah,
The believer will receive assistance and guidance from Allah the Almighty, all the way to success. So when Allah grants his servant these privileges, He removes all suspicions and fantasies that may burden his heart. Similarly He will enlighten his servant if confused, letting no sense of insecurity or doubt creep into his heart.
Allah, may Glory be to Him, will never disappoint a person who has believed in Him. He will also defend his servant if any injustice done to him, and continue helping him to surmount any misfortune. Allah, the most Exalted, says, "And thus do We save the believers." (Al Anbiyaa: 88).
With all these favours, the believer will certainly be closer to Allah so much that he will receive His providence. In return, he must express his gratitude to his Creator and let himself feel the assurance that Allah, the most Exalted, has promised believers the greater reward of Paradise.
Allah the Almighty says, "Allah has promised the believing men and believing women gardens beneath which rivers flow, wherein they abide eternally, and pleasant dwellings in gardens of perpetual residence; but approval from Allah is greater. It is that which is the great attainment." (Attawba: 72).
With this in mind, O Allah we seek Your favour to grant us faith and trust in You with all our hearts.
May Allah help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Him, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure Family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, obey Allah as you have been ordered, whether in secret or in public, and know that faith is a blessing that Allah the Almighty confers upon whom He loves most. Ibn Masood, may Allah be pleased with him, was reported as saying, "Allah bestows wealth on those He loves and those He does not love. He only gives faith to those He loves."
One of the signs of Allah's love for His servants is their offering obligatory and supererogatory prayers (type of voluntary prayers) with the aim of getting closer to Him. This has been confirmed in the following Hadith Qudsi: "and My servant does not draw near to Me with anything more loved to Me than the religious duties I have obligated upon him. And My servant continues to draw near to me with nafil (supererogatory) deeds until I Love him."
Dear Believers,
Strive hard in performing acts of worship, increasing supererogatory deeds, and doing good actions and charity work. Indeed Allah, may Glory be to Him, loves the pious and generous servants as evidenced in this Hadith: "Allah loves the pious servant, who is free from want and who is not noticeable (i.e., free from showing off or hypocrisy)."
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab : 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 
 
 
 













