addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermonAll praise be to Allah, the Lord of all Creations. He sent His Messenger with Guidance and the Religion of Truth. I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best friend and companion, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to obey Allah the Almighty as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).Dear Muslims,The Prophet Ibrahim (Abraham) pbuh supplicated to Allah to send amongst his people a messenger to enlighten them and teach them the Book, saying "Our Lord, and send among them a messenger from themselves who will recite to them Your verses and teach them the Book and wisdom and purify them. Indeed, You are the Exalted in Might, the Wise." (Al Baqara: 129).For his part, The Prophet Isa (Jesus) pbuh preached that a messenger would come after him as reported by Allah the Almighty saying, "And [mention] when Jesus, the son of Mary, said, "O children of Israel, indeed I am the messenger of Allah to you confirming what came before me of the Torah and bringing good tidings of a messenger to come after me, whose name is Ahmad." But when he came to them with clear evidences, they said, "This is obvious magic." (Assaf: 6).Thus his birth marked the advent of a message and a prelude to a nation and civilisation. It brought out a great shine on history and changed the course of events. Faith and peace spread, while light shone on land, sea, animals, plants and inanimate objects. Most likely he pbuh was born on Monday, the twelfth of Rabia al Awwal in what came to be known as the "Year of the elephant"- the best day on which the sun has ever risen.On these days, hearts will be delighted at the commemoration of the birth of the best of Creations, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh who was sent as a blessing upon believers. Allah, the most Exalted, says, "Certainly did Allah confer [great] favor upon the believers when He sent among them a Messenger from themselves, reciting to them His verses and purifying them and teaching them the Book and wisdom, although they had been before in manifest error." (Al Imran: 164).Dear Servants of Allah,At the anniversary of his birth each year, we celebrate the perfect human and moral qualities Allah the Almighty conferred upon him. Indeed the Prophet pbuh was known for being sympathetic to people, helping his family, neighbours and others in matters of life. He would comfort his relatives, treat nicely his servants, honour his guests, acquaintances and companions, and deal graciously with non-Muslims. Friendly, compassionate, honest and trustworthy, as he was, the Prophet pbuh would also help the poor and the weak. His noble character had earned him the recognition of his enemies, including Hercules, the Roman emperor. The latter asked Abu Sufyan before his conversion to Islam: "Have you ever accused him (the Prophet pbuh) of falsehood before he proclaimed his prophethood?" Abu Sufyan replied: "no" Hercules said, "Does he break his promises?" Abu Sufyan replied: "no"Hercules said, "what are his orders for your folk?" Abu Sufyan said,  "worship Allah and associate none with Him and leave off what your parants worshiped and observe praying and truthfulness, chastity, and honour ties of kinship." Thereupon, Hercules said, "if what you have said is true he will get the land where I put my feet. If I know I will  reach him, I will do my best  to meet him, and if  I was there  I  have to wash his feet of [out of respect]."Dear Muslims,On this occasion, longing and faith strengthen in recognition of the great status of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh. Thus believers' hearts will beat for his love and tongue will remain moist with his remembrance.  And they will wholeheartedly follow him. How cannot it be so since the love for him is a sign of faith that shall elevate the position of believers?It was narrated by Anas ibn Malik, may Allah be satisfied with him, that the Prophet pbuh said, "none of you will have faith till he loves me more than his father, his children and all mankind."How can we not admire him knowing that he is our intercessor? Moreover, he is dear to our hearts and we do love him more than we love ourselves. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, narrated: "when I saw the Prophet in a good mood, I said to him: "O Messenger of Allah, supplicate to Allah for me!" So, he said, "O Allah, forgive Aisha, her past and future sins, what she has hidden, as well as what she has made apparent." The Messenger of Allah said to me: "Does my supplication make you happy?" I replied: "And how can your supplication not make me happy?" He then said, "By Allah, it is the supplication that I make for my Ummah in every prayer." He pbuh translated his keen interest in his Ummah through the mercy he was endowed with. Throughout his life, he showed mercy to the young and old, wife and child, relatives and neighbours, the weak and poor. His life was a mercy on all people, rather on all Creations. About him, Allah, the most Exalted, says, "And We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds." (Al Anbiyaa: 107).For such reasons and others, all creatures responded to his love and rejoiced his birth so much that animals emerged docile and submissive to him. Plants and trees admired him with their trunks weeping, out of longing for him. They also shuffled their branches and leaves to shade him and salute him. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "I recognise a stone in Mecca which used to pay me salutations before my advent as a Prophet and I recognise that even now."Dear Servants of Allah,Strive in the love of our Prophet Muhammad pbuh by adhering to his Sunna and following his guidance. Also express your longing for him by increasing prayers upon him. Abu Hurayra reported Allah's Messenger pbuh as saying, "the people most loved by me from amongst my Ummah would be those who would come after me but everyone amongst them would have the keenest desire to catch a glimpse of me even at the cost of his family and wealth."You are also advised to instil in your children the love for the Prophet pbuh by revering him, keenly following his words, acts and moral attributes and obeying his commands.  Bearing this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to help us obey Him, His Messenger and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say my words and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.Second sermon, All praise is due to Allah. I bear witness there is no deity but Him, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure Family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.O Servants of Allah, obey Him and know that one of the most fructuous results of love is the lover being resurrected with whom he loves. Abdullah ibn Masood, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that a man came to Allah's Apostle and said, "O Allah's Messenger, what do you say about a man who loves some people but cannot catch up with their good deeds?" Allah's Apostle said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves."So whoever loves the Prophet pbuh will be with him in the Paradise. Anas narrated that a man asked the Prophet pbuh about the Hour (i.e., Day of Judgment) saying, "when will the Hour be?" The Prophet said, "what have you prepared for it?" The man said, "nothing, except that I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet said, "you will be with those whom you love."We had never been so glad as we were on hearing that saying of the Prophet (i.e., "You will be with those whom you love.") Therefore, I love the Prophet, Abu Bakr and Umar, and I hope that I will be with them because of my love for them though my deeds are not similar to theirs.Dear Muslims,Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab : 56).The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













