addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf celebrated the birth anniversary of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh all over its branches in the Emirates. Here in Abu Dhabi, it held a function at the Abu Dhabi Theatre which was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince court, the executive directors, other officials from Awqaf, preachers and a large crowd of people from all walks of life.
On this occasion, Awqaf extended its sincere greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
The ceremony opened with a recitation of verses from the holy Quran followed by a speech by sheikh Taleb al Shehhi, director of the preaching department. Sheikh al Shehhi pointed out that the birth of the prophet had ushered in the provident light that removed ignorance and settled in mercy. His advent had brought happiness to the rich and poor, the young and old, the friend and foe. It had also introduced such a life and human principles conducive to promoting harmony, justice and equality amongst human beings, he said.
Sheikh Shehhi added that the UAE since the era of its founder, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, has sought to highlight the cultural image of the message of Islam. This mission is continuously being undertaken by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him.
For its part, Awqaf has committed itself to translating the UAE leadership directives and being the UAE leading entity promoting religious awareness and Islamic culture, he noted.
Sheikh Shehhi further mentioned that Awqaf had taken serious steps to boost principles of moderation and spread the culture of tolerance through Friday sermons and other channels of communication in collaboration with various institutions in the UAE.
Finally he called for following the Sunna of the Prophet pbuh by adhering to his principles and lofty morals as well as instilling the good virtues he advocated in our children, families and community.
Some scholars, including students from the University of Mohammed V-Agdal-Abu Dhabi highlighted aspects of the Prophet's mercy in dealing with people and environment as well as his noble morality. They also showed his leniency and compassion in dealing with his companions and family as well as with Muslims and non-Muslims.
It is worthwhile mentioning that Awqaf printed and distributed a booklet titled "Muhammad peace be upon him", which discusses his birth, lineage, noble names, message, attributes, status in addition to the characteristics of his prophethood and Umma. Through this publication, it urges individuals to hold on to the love of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh and raise their children as per his teachings and tradition.
 













