addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As per its plan emanating from the Cabinet, Awqaf held its first branch directors' meeting this year in Tilal Liwa Hotel in the Western Region. It was chaired by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, and was dedicated to discuss ways to implement the Cabinet decision relative to mosque care programme as well as al Imam al Jamia concept, a project with the aim of assigning Imams to supervise smaller mosques.  
According to Dr Kaabi, one major mosque in every emirate will have its Imam be responsible for overseeing lectures given in nearby mosques as well as the quality of their maintenance. This project will be applied gradually all over the UAE, he said.
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi extended his deepest gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He also highlighted the keen interest of HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Ruler's Representative in the Western Region, in all matters related to Islamic Affairs and Endowments there, emphasising his role in the construction of mosques and Quranic centres to keep pace with the latest developments so that the Western Region will attain a prominent position in the country.
On another note, Dr al Kaabi said that the meeting supervised by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, looked into the agenda of previous meetings and workshops of 2012 to identify points that had been achieved and those which still need a follow up. He revealed that Awqaf had an achievement record of 98 per cent last year.
Other topics on the agenda were the appoitment of for more Imams as many mosques have opened and a proposal for donors' guidelines. The latter would explain different steps and procedures for those who wish to build a mosque.
Branch directors discussed also preparations for commemorating the Prophet Birth anniversary as well as the UAE National Day for next year. Finally they stressed the importance of conducting regular field visits to mosques and Quranic Centres and inspecting the situation of mosques on external roads.
Meanwhile, a workshop was held with the participation of Imams, Muezzins and administrators at Awqaf branch in the Western Region. It examined ways to preserve the gains that had been achieved regarding mosques and the necessity to maintain contact among Imams, Muezzins and the Awqaf branch. Participants highlighted also the idea of continuing training sessions on social networking channels and modern communication mediums.
Imams praised the UAE wise leadership's keen interest in the houses of Allah together with their personnel, saying they would work hand in hand to achieve the role of mosques in the best interest of all.  They also expressed their pride of Awqaf, saying they would spare no effort to develop themselves through continuous learning to benefit themselves, their workplace and nation.
 
 













