addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Self-Sufficient, the Ever-Forgiving. He has made walking to His Houses a guiding light for Muslims on the day in which the hearts and eyes will fearfully turn about (in reference to the Day of Judgment).
I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His dearest Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon His Prophet, his family, his companions and those who follow in their footsteps until the Last Day.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says,  "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
O Believers,
Mosques are the Houses of Allah, the shelter of believers and the home for the pious. To them worshippers' hearts attach and therein Muslims devote themselves to Dhikr as Allah, the Almighty, says, , "[Such niches are] in mosques which Allah has ordered to be raised and that His name be mentioned therein; exalting Him within them in the morning and the evenings men whom neither commerce nor sale distracts from the remembrance of Allah and performance of prayer and giving of Zakat." (Annur: 36-37).
Allah, the Most Exalted, has made them a place of return and security for people. From their minarets rises higher the name of Allah, the Almighty, and from every part therein beam the goodly word and work. Also in the mosques Quran is recited and the Prophet's Hadiths and tradition are taught.
As well as for Salat and Dhikr, Muslims came also for receiving beneficial knowledge and increasing their understanding, when for example they listen to Friday Khutba every week. As such, they are among those who respond to the call of Allah, "O you who have believed, when [the Adhan] is called for the prayer on the day of Jumuaa [Friday], then proceed to the remembrance of Allah and leave trade. That is better for you, if you only knew." (Al Jumaa: 9).
Indeed mosques are blessed and pure houses about which our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "The dearest parts on the face of the earth near Allah are its mosques."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Mosques have virtues of their own which Muslims have to be aware of. One of such merits is that Allah, may Glory be to Him, multiplies His reward for those who walk their way to the mosque; they will get the recompense for every step they do on their way to and back from the mosque. So whoever does ablution and heads for the house of Allah for attending a congregational prayer, Allah will double his good deeds and cross out his misdeeds as many steps as he has walked.
The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "If any one of you performs ablution and performs it very well, and goes out for prayer, he does not take his right step but Allah records a good work (or blessing) for him, and he does not take his left step but Allah remits one sin from him. Any one of you may reside near the mosque or far from it; if he comes to the mosque and prays in congregation, he will be forgiven (by Allah). If he comes to the mosque while the people had prayed in part, and the prayer remained in part, and he prays in congregation the part he joined, and completed the part he had missed, he will enjoy similarly (i.e. he will be forgiven). If he comes to the mosque when the people had finished prayer, he will enjoy the same."
Dear Muslims,
Among the ethics Muslims should observe when going to mosques is them being clean in body and elegant in dress. Allah, the most Exalted, says, "O children of Adam, take your adornment at every Masjid." (Al Araf: 31). This is evidenced further by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "When someone among you offers Salat, he should wear two garments as Allah is most deserving you should adorn for."
Muslims are also advised to observe a descent attire, which must reveal no part of their bodies that may invalidate prayer especially when performing Rukua (bowing) and Sujud (prostration).
As well as good apparel, Muslims should be careful that no repulsive odours come out from their bodies or clothes for fear of harming others. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "He who eats onion and garlic and leek, should not approach our mosque for the angels are harmed by the same things as the children of Adam."
No less important, Muslims should not disturb other worshippers or be involved in anything that may impair their concentration in prayer. This is the case when, for example, mobile phones are left on, which can produce loud sounds.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that by attending lectures and sessions for studying and learning the holy Quran in mosques you shall gain your lot from the Prophet's inheritance. You shall also acquire everything that may enlighten your thoughts and guide your heart and senses.
On the authority of Abu Hurayra, may Allah be pleased with him, that he passed by the market place of Medina and stopped there. So he said, "O people in this market, what has made you weak and in need (incapable)?"
They said, "what is it (that you mean) O Abu Hurayra?" He said, "there is the inheritance of the Prophet pbuh being distributed, yet you people are here! Would you not  go there so you may take your share from it?"
They said, "and where is it that (place)?" He said, "in the Masjid." Thereupon, people departed quickly whilst Abu Hurayra waited there until they returned. Then he said to them, "what is with you (what did you find)?"  They replied, "O Abu Hurayra, surely we came to the Masjid then entered it but we did not see anything (of what you said) being distributed."
So Abu Hurayra said to them, "so you did not see anyone in the Masjid?" They said, "of course we saw (some) people performing Salat, others reciting the Quran and others reviewing and exhorting, reminding one another about matters of Halal and Haram."
So Abu Hurayra replied to them, "Woe unto you! (as a form of regret for them) that was the inheritance of Muhammad pbuh."
Indeed this is the Prophetic legacy which qualified scholars and inheritors of the Prophets, as they are, teach and communicate. Through this legacy, they promote noble Islamic virtues and protect against immoderation and sternness. For their role in counseling people to ensure principles of mercy and peace, they desreve every praise and prayer for forgiveness from inhabitants of the earth and sky.
Abu al Darda reported that he heard the Prophet pbuh saying, "all the ones that are in the heavens and the ones in the earth, even the fish in the sea seek forgiveness for the scholar."
Then, Servants of Allah, strive to go to the houses of Allah, establish congregational prayers there, attend lectures and recite Quran. You are also required to respect mosques' sanctity, maintain their cleanness and furnishing, avoid damaging their facilities, turn away from ill speech, buying or selling, begging or anything that may injure the sacredness of the place.
Bearing this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to help us be amongst those who observe prayers in congregation and attend Jumaa. May Allah help us also to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah bless you and me with the ability to implement the Holy Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger Muhammad pbuh. I say this and pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us forgiveness. Supplicate to Allah for forgiveness for He is the Most Forgiving and the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who was true to his promise. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that mosques are houses of Allah, which the UAE government has taken full care of them by building and maintaining them. The Cabinet decision concerning mosques' care programme is part of such efforts. It is aimed to boost mosques' status as culltural landmarks built according to specific standards laid down by the competent authorities.
The programme also aims at highlighting mosques' position as beacons of spreading knowedge and teaching Quran. So none but the competent as well as authorised teachers and scholars can teach there. No deviant thoughts shall be allowed in, nor shall mosques be used for promoting partisanship and division.
The same applies to collecting donations, distributing books and leaflets, putting on posters, sleeping inside or organising banquets there without prior consent of authorities in charge. Moreover, begging is strictly disallowed. As for mosques' management, no interfering is permitted and only the authorised personnel by the comptent authorities shall undertake this responsibility.
All of these measures are meant to protect the sanctity of mosques so they remain  a safehaven for safety, worship, serenity and transquility.
So be keen to maintain mosques and fill them with Iman (faith), just as Allah the Almighty says, "The mosques of Allah are only to be maintained by those who believe in Allah and the Last Day and establish prayer and give zakah and do not fear except Allah, for it is expected that those will be of the [rightly] guided." (Attawba: 18).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab : 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and support to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength nor power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Remember Allah and He will Remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish regular Prayer: for Prayer restrains from shameful and unjust deeds; and remembrance of Allah is the greatest (thing in life) without doubt. And Allah knows the (deeds) that ye do." (Al Ankaboot:45).
 













