addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon 
All praise is due to Allah, may His Majesty be glorified, His adulation and Names sanctified. Whoever trusts in Allah, He will suffice for him concerning all his needs, and whoever seeks His help, He will give him. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is Allah's Servant and Messenger, the Imam of Messengers and seal of the Prophets. He set the example for those who trust in Allah.
May Allah's peace and blessings be on Muhammad, his pure family, his pious Companions and all those who follow them perfectly until the Day of Resurrection.
As to what follows, I exhort you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Believers,
Allah, the most Exalted says, "And upon Allah rely, if you should be believers." (Al Maeda: 23). Trusting in Allah is an attribute of high religious status, describing the person's disposition to seek help from Him in all matters of life. It also marks one's faith that there is no power but in Allah, the most High. Yet, people should seek ways and means to manage their life while having trust in Allah that he has ensured their provisions and lot.
Thus, they should depend upon Him alone for He has praised his servants, who put trust in Him. In many verses, reliance on Allah is described as a way to win His love. For example in Surat Al Imarn (verse 159), Allah, the most Exalted, says, "And when you have decided, then rely upon Allah. Indeed, Allah loves those who rely [upon Him]."
Prophets (may peace be upon them) had been known for their reliance on Allah, whether in good or bad times. Describing their attitude, Allah says, "And why should we not rely upon Allah while He has guided us to our [good] ways. And we will surely be patient against whatever harm you should cause us. And upon Allah let those who would rely [indeed] rely." (Ibrahim: 12).
Trusting in Allah is also a quality that entitles believers the favour to draw closer to Him, for He says, "Our Lord, upon You we have relied, and to You we have returned, and to You is the destination." (Al Mumtahina: 4).
Addressing His Messenger Muhammad pbuh, Allah also says, "and rely upon Allah. And sufficient is Allah as Disposer of affairs." (Annisaa: 81). Whether in words or deeds, prayers and in all matters of his life, our Prophet pbuh had been an example for those who trust in Allah. On the narration of Ibn Abbas, may Allah be satisfied with him, that Muhammad pbuh used to say, "O Allah! To You I have submitted, and in You do I believe, and in You I put my trust."
So whoever depends on Allah and takes Him as his Lord and Patron will be led to success. It was reported by Abu Dhar al Ghufari, may Allah be pleased with him, that the Prophet pbuh read this verse on him: "And whoever fears Allah - He will make for him a way out. And will provide for him from where he does not expect. And whoever relies upon Allah - then He is sufficient for him." (Attalaq: 2-3). So when he pbuh finished reading, he advised him (Abu Dar al Ghufari) saying, "Had all people followed this Aya, it would have sufficed them."
O Servants of Allah,
Indeed, seeking help from Allah is a source of guidance and contentment for the heart and a protection from evil. This is why our Prophet pbuh taught us to rely on Allah all day long, from sunrise to sunset, reminding us of it at every crack of dawn.
On the narration of Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be satisfied with him, that the Prophet pbuh said, "When a man goes out of his house and says: "In the name of Allah, I trust in Allah; there is no might and no power but in Allah," the following will be said to him at that time: "You are guided, defended and protected." The devils will go far from him and another devil will say: How can you deal with a man who has been guided, defended and protected?"
Those who put their trust in Allah shall also be immune from Satan authority, as evidenced in the following verse: "Indeed, there is for him no authority over those who have believed and rely upon their Lord." (Annahl: 99). 
Dear Servants of Allah,
Seeking help from Allah is an implication of faith, which does not run against taking actual actions. Our Prophet considered both and once said to one of his Companions: "Strive for that which will benefit you, seek the help of Allah, and do not feel helpless." He pbuh urged him to take the necessary means and pray to Allah for support.
Trusting in Allah is also a disposition to seek the means and supplicate to Allah for success. It was reported that a man left his mount untied and came to the Prophet pbuh. He said, "O Messenger of Allah! Shall I tie it and rely (upon Allah), or leave it loose and rely (upon Allah)?" He pbuh said: "Tie it and rely (upon Allah)." The Hadith highlights the importance of two things: seeking the means and depending upon Allah. This implies that we cannot depend alone on wishes without actions.
Similarly, it occurred that some people misunderstood the meaning of reliance upon Allah and thus they renounced taking actions. They used to perform Haj and not bring provisions with them. They would declare we put trust in Allah. So Allah most high sent them: "and bring provisions, but the best provision is piety." They were asked to stop doing that and start bringing their supply of money and food.
Dear Believers,
Please know that what can help relying upon Allah is us being self-content and submissive to Him. Allah the most Exalted says in this regard, "Say, "Never will we be struck except by what Allah has decreed for us; He is our protector." And upon Allah let the believers rely." (Attawba: 51).
A strong believer is thus who accepts what has been decreed by Allah and refrain from complaining and regretting. On this matter, our Prophet pbuh ordered us to avoid such an attitude when He said, "If anything befalls you, do not say, "if only I had done such and such" rather say "Qaddara Allahu wa ma shaa faala (Allah has decreed and whatever he wills, He does)." For (saying) 'If' opens (the door) to the deeds of Satan."
With this in mind, we seek Your grace to make us amongst Your servants who trust in You and are satisfied with what you have decided. May Allah also grant us Paradise and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa:59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please be aware that trusting in Allah would help people acquire tranquillity and -by Allah's will- earn them Paradise without being brought to question or account. Allah most High says, "And those who have believed and done righteous deeds - We will surely assign to them of Paradise [elevated] chambers beneath which rivers flow, wherein they abide eternally. Excellent is the reward of the [righteous] workers who have been patient and upon their Lord rely." (Al Ankaboot: 58-59).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Strive to achieve the meaning of seeking Allah's help, rely upon him and do not look at what others have. Truly whoever trusts Allah will be protected by his Creator from evil in life, including the ill-whispers from Satan. He will also benefit from abundant provisions, just as he wishes. In this regard, our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "If you were to rely upon Allah with the required reliance, then He would provide for you just as a bird is provided for, it goes out in the morning empty, and returns full."
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab : 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













