addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A master thesis defence was hosted at the University of Mohammed V-Agdal-Abu Dhabi during which the Emirati postgraduate student, Ibrahim Mohammed al Musakri, discussed the broadlines of his academic work titled "Workers and Employees' Rights and Obligations in Islamic Jurisprudence and Community Application: The UAE efforts as an example". This is the first field study that looks into this segment of society in light of the UAE rules and regulations.
The UAE has laid strong foundations for workers and employees' rights and duties and been fair to workers and employers as well as to employees and institutions to which they belong. As such, the research refuted the unfair and biased reports by the Human Rights Watch which contradict the reality on the ground.
The academic jury consisted of Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, Dr Abdelkarim Akioui and Dr Hayat al Brahmati. The defence ceremony was also attended by the University director, professors, lecturers, students and a host of scholars and interested audience.
Prof Dr Hamada spoke of the objectives of the postgraduate studies set by the University, the most important of which is preparing master and PhD theses addressing contemporary social and human issues. Academic dissertations, like the present one and others, are real-world oriented, and focus on whatever can bring the society and the state close together and propose practical solutions to problems, he said.
Al Muskari, a former employee at the Ministry of Justice, was requested to give an overview about his thesis. Thus, the following points were highlighted:
-Underlining the importance Islam gives to work and workers.
- Indicating the rulings relative to workers and employees in general.
- Negligence by many employees of their occupational obligations.
- Stating the UAE's efforts in preserving workers' rights, leading it to attaining excellence in this domain.
Al Muskari then spoke of the outline of his research, which is organised around an introduction, a preface, three chapters and a conclusion. The forward section defines the main concepts and terminologies and the importance of work in Islam. The first chapter deals with the workers and employees' rights, whereas the second chapter reviews their obligations.
The third chapter, analysis, discusses the UAE's efforts in protecting workers' rights. It scrutinises the latest report issued in March 2, 2012 by the Human Rights Watch, which criticised the conditions of workers. Based on solid evidence, the researcher refuted the report, and concluded that the UAE had implemented innovative initiatives for the sake of preserving workers' rights.
The UAE government, for example, has enforced laws that oblige firms to pay workers through banking transfers. It has also set up free-of-charge courts to address labour cases, banned work during noon time, implemented health insurance scheme, among others.
The study also demonstrates that the workers' rights have been observed and protected. Thanks to the great interest devoted to consolidating these rights, the UAE won the membership in the UN Human Rights Council for another three-year term as of the beginning of this year.
 













