addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In collaboration with Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarter, Awqaf hosted a lecture against overspeed on roads delivered by Lt Colonel Jamal Salem al Amri, Chief of Public Relations Section in the Traffic and Patrols at Abu Dhabi Police. It was attended by a host of Awqaf employees.
Lt Colonel al Amri mentioned that the lecture was aimed at increasing the public awareness of the necessity to respect traffic laws and know the consequential health, psychological and physical outcomes of illegal speed for both the driver and family. He then urged the audience to convey this message to their relatives and friends, thanking Awqaf's efforts and willingness to jointly organise more lectures in the future.
Lt Colonel al Amri listed the reasons why motorists break the speed limits, which lead to fatal accidents. This includes the absence of the culture of using the car as a means of transportation, traffic law violations, such as crossing the signals, among others. One way to address these issues, the Ministry of Interior had provided all possible means to reduce road accidents by, for example, implementing many preventive measures and reaching out to young people through awareness lectures, he said
During the presentation, video clips on some examples of drivers' mistakes were displayed and seen how can be hazardous to them and other motorists and on many occasions lead to death.
For his part, Mr Hamad Yusuf Muala, the executive director for support services, said that Awqaf was keen to consolidate the UAE leadership's vision about the necessity to contribute to the safety of the community through a variety of activities with the aim of raising individuals' awareness. He also explained that Awqaf offers to educate its employees through workshops and lectures in cooperation with various institutions in the UAE.
On another note, he lauded the great support Awqaf is receiving from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He also praised the support of HH Lt General Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister, and his kind follow up of the implementation of many cooperation programmes between the Ministry of Interior and many government institutions.
It is worth mentioning that this lecture is part of the operational plan set by the government communication department at Awqaf, which seeks to coordinate with various institutions as per the directives of the UAE wise leadership.
 













