addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Sublime, the All Aware. Nothing is hidden from Him, whether on earth or in heaven. He is the All Hearing, the All Seeing. We do praise Him for His blessings and favours. I testify that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. He has made all what is Halal and Haram clear to us.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is Allah's Servant and Messenger. He is the best who told between ways of guidance and delusion and called for preserving people's dignity and property.
May Allah's peace and blessings be on His Prophet Muhammad. He was endowed with precious qualities and manners. May peace and blessings also be on his pure family and pious Companions as well as on all those who follow them perfectly until the Day of Resurrection.
As to what follows, I exhort you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (Attawaba: 119)
O Believers,
Allah, the most Exalted, sent the holy Quran for His servants' interests. It came to protect their lives, minds, dignity, property and all of their rights that underline their life and stability. Truly among the purposes of Islamic law is to safeguard people's possessions by prohibiting obtaining others' wealth unlawfully just as Allah says, "O you who have believed, do not consume one another's wealth unjustly." (Annisaa: 29). Therefore, He the Almighty has ordered us to earn our living in permissive ways, forbidding us all the way to follow the steps of Satan.
Allah, the most Exalted, says, "O mankind, eat from whatever is on earth [that is] lawful and good and do not follow the footsteps of Satan. Indeed, he is to you a clear enemy." (Al Baqara: 168).
The Satanic path includes, but not limited to, the use of deceptive manners to usurp people's rights and money. It appears legal, but deeply is deceitful. For example, a defrauder may produce a legal contract, only to achieve an illegitimate purpose. He thus disobeys Allah by transgressing His prohibitions, declining a duty, depriving a right, and so on. This is the path of the corrupting persons, who overpower the good with deceit and falsehood. They go on shamelessly tricking and cheating people.
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh warned us against such people when he said, "The inmates of Hell are five, [including] those dishonest whose greed cannot be concealed even in the case of minor things, and who betray you morning and evening, in regard to your family and your property." In yet another Hadith, he pbuh said, "Indeed this wealth is green and sweet. Whoever gets what he deserves of it then he shall be blessed in it. And many a person who deals with what he wants for himself, from the wealth of Allah and His Messenger, gets nothing on the Day of Judgment but the Fire."
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that ways of fraud are many. Some cheaters may resort to raise the price of a commodity even though they do not want to buy it. They do so simply for tricking the seller. This is a form of haggling for inflating the price, which our Prophet pbuh condemned, as he said, "and don't outbid one another (with a view to raising the price)." On the same matter, Abu Awfa said, "the oubidder is a usurer and a cheater. He is engaged in purely deceitful acts." Our Guide pbuh also said, "deceit results in the Fire."
There are also some defrauders who may lay in wait for bank customers and exploit the latter's politeness and good spirit, only to take them by surprise and loot their money. So, dear Muslims, stay vigilant so no one would fool you. In this regard, Al Mughayra Ibn Shuaba, may Allah be pleased with him, described Umar Ibn al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, saying, "I never have seen anyone as assertive as Umar. By Allah he was blessed with a power not to lose patience, and such wisdom to save him being tricked."
Please be careful not to fall prey to such cheaters and be ripped of your money as a result. Be also alert as not to be dragged into taking loans, and you end up in an abyss of worries and an endless disgrace.
Dear Muslims,
Deceit can take some other forms like altering validity date on food items or generally engaging in foodstuff quality fraud. It was narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah pbuh happened to pass by a heap of eatables (corn). He thrust his hand in that (heap) and his fingers were moistened. He said to the owner of that heap of eatables (corn), "what is this?" He replied: "Messenger of Allah, these have been drenched by rainfall." He (the Holy Prophet) remarked: "why did you not place this (the drenched part of the heap) over other eatables so that the people could see it? He who deceives is not of me (is not my follower)."
As you have seen, Dear Muslims, our Prophet pbuh rejected those who cheat others. So stay alert form fraudulent people who attempt to win people's sympathy by pretending being wretched and poor, or through phone scams. Many would call to promise you prizes, or to inform you that you are enchanted and they can detect magic. But in return they would ask for money. He pbuh warned they would receive deterrent punishment.
In all cases, we need to be cautious of them, especially the beggars who pretend to be needy as well as all types of cheaters. He pbuh said, "He who asks others to give to him in order to increase his own wealth, is akin to one who asks for live coals. He who wishes to have more, let him have it and he who wishes to have less, let him have it." He also said, "A man who persists in begging people to give him charity, will come on the Day of Judgment and there will not be a piece of flesh on his face."
Dear Muslims,
Yet there are also some people, who seek illicit means to obtain loans, fulfill an obligation, unlawfully acquire academic credentials, and falsify certificates to get a job or a satisfactory employment. All of these deeds are entirely fraud and falsehood, about which the Prophet pbuh said, "the one who boasts of receiving what he has not been given is like him who has put on two garments of falsehood."
Similar cases of fraud are when employees claim they are sick to relieve themselves, or when they attribute their colleagues' achievements to themselves.
Bearing this in mind, we seek Your grace to grant us only what is Halal and save us from all what is Haram. May Allah help us also to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that forms of deceit are numerous as have been shown here. One more case to mention, among many, is the intention by the husband to cause harm to his wife by, for example, denying her right to a dowry. Allah the Almighty said, "And do not keep them, intending harm, to transgress [against them]. And whoever does that has certainly wronged himself. And do not take the verses of Allah in jest." (Al Baqara: 231).
Everyone living in this country is therefore responsible for reporting defrauders, while remaining honest and trustworthy guardian in his home and workplace.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny. O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













