addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A delegation of officials and preachers from Awqaf visited patients at Sheikh Khalifa Medical City (SKMC) with the aim of promoting communication and compassion, a move that came to help comforting patients and boosting their morale.
Sheikh Taleb al Shehhi, the director of the preaching department, Mr Ahmed al Zaabi, the director of Waqf investment, Mr Hasan Salem al Hoseni, director of human resources and financial affairs, and Ms Atheeja al Zaabi, director of government communication department, were welcomed by Mr Ahmed al Mansoori, head of patients' affairs department at SKMC.
Members of the delegation toured various sections at SKMC, visited patients there and prayed for them to speed their recovery. They later presented them with gifts.
In a statement, Mr Hamad Yusuf Mualla, Awqaf's executive director of support services, said that this visit came as part of Awqaf's community initiatives aiming at consolidating social bonds and spreading sense of solidarity, love and charity.
"Awqaf is used to conducting these visits to hospitals all over the UAE as per the instructions of our wise leadership which call for always strengthening ties amongst individuals," he said, adding "for this purpose, Awqaf has devoted wide space through its media and preaching outlets for promoting these principles in line with our religion."
For his part, al Mansoori lauded this visit, saying it would help patients to cope with their sufferings. He also mentioned that they are used to receiving similar visits by Awqaf, which confirms that it is undertaking its mission efficiently.
Mr al Mansoori praised the positive cooperation between Awqaf and SKMC, saying that its prompt response in matters related to religious affairs, especially mosques, was highly appreciated.
During the visit, al Mansoori briefed members of the delegation about the special care patients receive from Seha company and the SKMC's administration as per the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, who are providing every need and making every effort to ensure safety and good health services to all.
 













