addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 The Islamic Republic of Mauritania's Minister of Islamic Affairs and Traditional Education, HE Ahmed Ould al Ninni, visited Awqaf where he was received by Awqaf's Chairman, HE Dr Hamadan Musallam al Mazrouei. The ceremony was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, and executive directors.
Dr al Mazrouei welcomed Mr al Ninni in his second country, the UAE, describing this visit as an invaluable opportunity that to further strengthen cooperation prospects between Awqaf and the Islamic Affairs Ministry in Mauritania and achieve common goals.
Dr al Mazrouei praised also the strong relations between Emirati and Mauritanian peoples under the wise leadership of the two countries.
He then spoke of the remarkable progress done at the level of Awqaf across many fields, especially in Fatwa services, construction and maintenance of mosques, the growth of Waqf resources, among others.
Dr al Mazrouei credited these achievements to the unlimited support to Awqaf from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
On the same occasion, he praised the UAE leaders for their keen interest to empower Awqaf's role in promoting the Islamic values in the community and fostering moderate principles.
During the visit, Mr Al Ninni was briefed about Awqaf's programmes and procedures for achieving its mission. He also attended a documentary film on the most featured achievements of Awqaf, which are propelled by the support of the UAE wise leadership.
He then toured the UAE Official Fatwa Centre and briefed on its procedures and methods as well as the state-of-the-art technology used in communicating with members of the public.
In a statement, he praised the outstanding progress attained by the UAE in various domains, including economy, architecture, and culture. He also highlighted the remarkable accomplishments by Awqaf relative to the construction and maintenance of mosques, Waqf development, jurisprudence studies and Fatwa Centre.
The visits concluded with signing a memorandum of understanding on cooperation and exchanging experiences. It was signed by Dr al Mazrouei on behalf of Awqaf and Mr al Ninni on behalf of the Mauritanian Islamic Affairs Ministry.
Dr al Mazrouei said that Awqaf would continue benefitting from Mauritanian scholars, describing them as successful, along with other scholars, in highlighting principles of moderation and implementing the Malekite Madhab pursued in Mauritania and adopted in the UAE as the official school of Fiqh.
According to the MoU, both parties shall depict the bright image of Islam in its entirety, bringing into focus its tolerant and moderate principles. This can be achieved by managing fatwa issuance, promoting Islamic research, encouraging dialogue and coexistence amongst civilisations and cultures, in addition to addressing immoderation and sternness.
The MoU also specifies that the two parties shall strengthen their cooperation in research, cataloguing and reprinting manuscripts, exchanging printed materials, research and studies, and supporting traditional education schools and institutes as well as any action benefitting the community.
Moreover, the MoU stipulates that the two sides shall exchange expertise and delegations on various levels, undertake joint-training programmes in preaching and Fatwa and participate in conferences and events organised by both entities, each according to its competence.
 













