addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has completed an advanced edition of the Quranic memorisation curriculum covering three levels described as preliminary, memorisation and perfection.
The first stage features two textbooks and students are taught spelling, worship and morality. During the second stage, students start memorising parts of the Quran, Hadiths, and learn rules of Tajweed. In a later advanced level, they continue perfecting their skills in Tajweed and memorisation of Quran and Hadiths.
In the third stage, students have to revise what they have memorised and learned in previous levels. They are expected to have excellently memorised 30 parts in order to graduate.
The new curriculum came with a teacher book to guide teaching staff through different learning stages and activities.
The new teaching materials, which took three years to prepare, match the age segments of students and received appraisal from experts and scholars, Ms Muna al Ghassani, the director of religious centres and institutes said.
All Awqaf branches across the UAE have received copies of the edited curriculum due to take effect as of next April.
With more than 30,000 students, the Quranic Centres are educational institutions dedicated to the memorisation of the holy Quran and Tajweed. In doing this, they contribute to building individuals' character based on moderate principles to serve themselves, family and the community. This also reflects the values which Awqaf has set itself to instill in the youth since the Quranic Centres first established during the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
Speaking of the new curriculum release, Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director of Islamic affairs said, "the development of these centres is one of the priorities for Awqaf which seek to make them a model institutes in term of education, environment and construction.
"The Quranic schools have always received special support from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces."
 













