addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah as is befitting to His unlimited blessings on us. I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Allah Alone, having no partners, Who says, "And the servants of the Most Merciful are those who walk upon the earth easily." (Al Furqan: 63). I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He preferred him over others, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Among the purposes of Islam is to ensure stability and safety for people and protect their religion, selves, honour and wealth. To achieve this, Allah the Almighty has made avail to us whatever on the earth, "And He has subjected to you whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth - all from Him. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought." (Al Jathiya: 13).
He also ordered us to contribute in the population of the earth and be grateful to Him. He says, "And We have certainly established you upon the earth and made for you therein ways of livelihood. Little are you grateful." (Al Araf: 10).
Yet this cannot be done without some laws and ethics. That is why Islam has set rules about how people should manage their mission on earth, including how to behave on the road to ensure safety and stability. In this regard, people are advised to avoid tampering with the earth or spreading immorality, as Allah the most Eaxalted says, "And cause not corruption upon the earth after its reformation." (Al Araf: 56).
Indeed preserving the land is both a goal mentioned in the holy Quran and a legitimate principle. Allah the most Exalted, for example, promises reward and forgiveness to those who remove harmful objects from the road and maintain it neat and safe.
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "While a man walks along a path, finds a thorny twig lying on the way and puts it aside, Allah would appreciate it and forgive him." Yet in another Hadith, he pbuh said, "whoever removes an object, which may harm people from the road Allah will write it down as a good action for him. And if He records a good deed for him, he will enter Paradise."
The Prophet Companions were as much interested in the road safety as they were in other matters of religion. At his arrival in Al Basra, Abu Musa al Ashaari, may Allah be pleased with him, reported that Umar Ibn al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, had sent him to teach people religion and also ways to preserve their roads.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Allah has blessed us with means of transportation in land and sea, which we have harnessed to meet our needs, helping us move from one place to another and carry things in good time. This is a great favour for which we have to thank Allah forever.
Allah the most Exalted says, "And who created the species, all of them, and has made for you of ships and animals those which you mount. That you may settle yourselves upon their backs and then remember the favor of your Lord when you have settled upon them and say. "Exalted is He who has subjected this to us, and we could not have [otherwise] subdued it. And indeed we, to our Lord, will [surely] return." (Azzukhruf: 12-14).
It is mentioned in the holy Quran how people should walk and move. They are advised for example to avoid walking in a rush or impulsive manner, just as Allah the Almighty says, "It is He who made the earth tame for you - so walk among its slopes and eat of His provision - and to Him is the resurrection." (Al Mulk: 15). The way a person walks can tell to what extent he is kind and dignified.
The Prophet pbuh said, "verily Allah is kind and He loves kindness and confers upon kindness which he does not confer upon severity and does not confer upon anything else besides it (kindness)." He also said, "He who is deprived of gentleness is deprived of good."
So every Muslim needs to be moderate in all matters of his life, and especially in driving cars. For example, speeding on the road to fulfill an errand may regrettably cost the driver dearly.
On this matter, a poet said, what means: "everything comes to him who waits, but no sooner would he make waste who is in haste."
 Dear Muslims,
Please know that roads belong to everyone. It is a public property that no one should allow himself to use aberrantly or in any way harmful to others. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh taught us practical traffic rules and etiquette to deal with crowded roads. He would gesture to people with his palm uppermost saying, "be tranquil, be tranquil."
By contrast, stopping cars randomly will harm others by, for example, wasting people's time and delaying their interests. Because of such situations and others, road users need to be patient and alert to whatever that may happen and deal with it right on time.
Our master Muhammad pbuh also advised us to ensure the safety of our mount before use, as evidenced in this Hadith, "fear Allah regarding these dumb animals. Ride them when they are in good condition."
As a matter of fact, any vehicle which is not fit for use because of some defects may cause harm to both its driver and others on the road. To avoid this outcome, vehicles should be kept working properly and safely.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Generally vehicles are comfortable means of transportation and something parents look forward to offering to their sons and daughters. Wishing to make them feel happy, some parents may rush to give cars to their children before reaching legal age or obtaining a driving licence. Unfortunately, this may result in tragic accidents.
To avoid shocking consequences, we are all responsible to protect our children by respecting traffic rules as our Prophet pbuh said, "Surely! Everyone of you is a guardian and is responsible for his charges."
With this in mind, we seek Your grace to protect us all and help us to obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that compliance with traffic regulations is part and parcel of religious culture. Islam has specified a framework for it by, for example, prohibiting physical attacks with the aim of ensuring the personal safety of individuals.
In contrast, violating traffic laws may cause accidents bringing damage to people, animals, roads and facilities. To address this situation, we need to consider the traffic rules as a binding culture and behaviour. And those who transgress it must be held accountable. For their part, parents need to teach their children the best ethics of driving cars on roads. Furthermore, we should understand and believe in the fact that such rules are first and foremost there to save us.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to bless us with beneficial knowledge, let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













