addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf held its monthly meeting with Imams and Muezzins in the Sharjah Cultural Palace with the participation of more than 600 Muezzins and administrative staff. In a parallel meeting, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, announced that 98 per cent of Awqaf's decisions had been implemented for this current year.
The meeting also looked into the Cabinet decision no 39 of 2012 on maintenance and caretaking of mosques, which lays out, among other things, new specifications for ablution places and lavatories, namely some standard ventilation and new rules for purchasing activities.
The ministerial decision provides for further standards regarding the placement of shoes racks and the separation of ablution facilities and lavatories from places of worship.
Dr al Kaabi said the new regulations will be implemented, including the installation of electricity and air-conditioning switches behind the mosque, which will be under the responsibility of the Imam. This point will be further discussed with branch directors.
On another note, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that this gathering was part of Awqaf efforts to look into the situation of mosques and interact with Imams, Khateebs, Muezzins and other members of staff. It was also an opportunity to listen to their points of view and problems as well as discuss various administrative affairs, he said.
During the same meeting, Awqaf strategic plan for 2013 were discussed and the needs of Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins were identified for developing the plan set for 2014-2016 in line with the federal government goals and objectives.
Many projects and initiatives undertaken by Awqaf were presented, including the ISO 9001 Quality Policy, the ISO 14000 environment management systems and standards, and the ISO 18000 occupational health and safety management system. There was also a discussion about the general policy on societal accountability and the role of Awqaf and preachers in society, highlighting the risk management, alternative plans and the customer service charter due to be issued soon.
The meeting concluded with examining different aspects of HH Sheikh Khalifa Government Excellence Award.
 
 













