addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thanks be to Allah. I exalt Him as is befitting to His Majesty and Virtues. I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best friend and companion, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Believers,
Allah the Almighty has made of the pairing system in the universe one of the signs of His absolute might and sovereignty. He says, "And of all things We created two mates; perhaps you will remember." (Al Dhariyat: 49). It is also an evidence of His oneness for He says, "Exalted is He who created all pairs - from what the earth grows and from themselves and from that which they do not know." (Yasin: 36).
The key element in this universal system is the fact that each pair needs to be in a relationship with its counterpart, hence complementing each other. For example, a woman is a source of peace and tranquility for her husband, while the latter is her guardian and provider. Yet both have rights and have to meet up obligations.
For her role in educating generations and helping men to grow and prosper, women have been the focus of Islam, which holds them in high regard. It sets for them the prominent mission of building society and preparing its members for life. For this reason, our Prophet pbuh urged us to treat them nicely when he said, "So act kindly towards women."
Dear Servants of Allah,
On many occasions, the holy Quran has highlighted the status of women as in the following:
"O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women." (Annisaa: 1).
"And mention, [O Muhammad], in the Book [the story of] Mary, when she withdrew from her family to a place toward the east. And she took, in seclusion from them, a screen. Then We sent to her Our Angel, and he represented himself to her as a well-proportioned man." (Maryam: 16-17).
"Certainly has Allah heard the speech of the one who argues with you, [O Muhammad], concerning her husband and directs her complaint to Allah. And Allah hears your dialogue; indeed, Allah is Hearing and Seeing." (Al Mujadala: 1).
Further stressing their status, Islam makes no distinction between men and women when to do with getting rewards. Allah the most Exalted says, "And their Lord responded to them, "Never will I allow to be lost the work of [any] worker among you, whether male or female; you are of one another." (Al Imran: 195).
Islam also considers women as partners to men in obtaining their rights as devised by Allah. In this regard, He says, "For men is a share of what they have earned, and for women is a share of what they have earned." (Annisaa: 32). Part of these rights is women's participation in progress-making efforts. The Prophet pbuh, said, "Women are counterpart of men."
Dear Muslims,
For good upbringing of the community, Islam has guaranteed women the right to education and learning. Our Master Muhammad pbuh used to dedicate a day to teach and guide them.
On the narration of Abu Said al Khudari, may Allah be pleased with him, that a woman came to Allah's Apostle and said, "O Allah's Apostle! Men (only) benefit by your teachings, so please devote to us from (some of) your time, a day on which we may come to you so that you may teach us of what Allah has taught you."
Allah's Apostle said, "Gather on such-and-such a day at such and- such a place." They gathered and Allah's Apostle came to them and taught them of what Allah had taught him.
Such a Prophetic teaching and guidance have indeed helped many women throughout history to emerge as preachers, religious jurists and scholars. About this, Sayida Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "the best of the women are the women of the Ansar. Shyness would not prevent them from inquiring about religion and from acquiring deep understanding in it."
Our Prophet pbuh urged us here to pay due tribute to women for being both mothers and educators. He said, "your mother, again your mother, again your mother, then your father," meaning she was worth three times the reward of the father.
Similarly, Allah the most Exalted ordered men to treat their wives nicely when He said, "And live with them in kindness." (Annisaa: 19).
Dear believers,
Fulfilling women's rights is both a religious requirement and an act of civility that helps them accomplishing their duties, notably the task of building the family and ensuring its stability.   
As a mother, the woman is supposed to look after her children, providing them with beneficial education and warm-hearted care. She must not neglect them, or fall short in her duties towards them. On this matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "woman is a guardian over the household of her husband and his children and shall be questioned about them (as to how she managed the household and brought up the children)."
As a wife she needs to be the person to whom the husband turns in search for tranquility. Allah says, "And of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquillity in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy." (Arrum: 21).
Thus, she needs to treat him nicely and his relatives and preserve his wealth, integrity and interests. Our Master pbuh said, "Let me inform you about the best a man hoards; it is a virtuous woman who pleases him when he looks at her, obeys him when he gives her a command, and guards his interests when he is away from her."
As a girl, she is the source of pride to her family and an asset to her community and country by preserving her religion, morality and values. By doing this, she will maintain a high self-esteem and acquire the best of ethics and manners.
On another note, she is encouraged to emulate, for example, the Virgin Mary in her purity, Sayida Khadija in her faithfulness, Fatima Azzahra in her righteousness and Sayida Aisha in her knowledge, may Allah be pleased with them all.
Bearing this in mind, we seek Allah's grace to protect us all and help us to obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that our wise leaders have strongly empowered women. They have opened for them wide and practical prospects and enabled them with means of knowledge so that they can increase their positive contribution and engagement.
As a result, the Emirati women have come a long way in the acquisition of knowledge and tremendously contributed, along with men, in the development of their community and nation. In their endeavours, they have succeeded in attaining high positions in all fields of life.
Dear Servants of Allah,
You are invited all to encourage women to continue learning and working for the sake of this nation, seek to foster healthy family relationships and honour rights and duties between husbands and wives. And when solving problems, please choose dialogue and avoid arguments and animosities. But most of all try to avoid by all means disagreements leading to divorce, for this does no good but harm our sons and daughters.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to bless us with beneficial knowledge, let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 













