addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Supreme Committee for Haj and Umra (SCHU) penalised 44 Haj operators after they were found violating the terms and conditions specified in the service contract. Appropriate penalties ranging from suspension to fines and warnings were taken against offenders.
This came during the SCHU's meeting chaired by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, at Awqaf's general headquarters in Abu Dhabi. Also present were the Committee's members representing ministries and federal authorities in addition to the director of Haj and Umra department.
Two operators have their business licences suspended for one year, five operators got a final warning, and 26 others were warned and fined.
In a statement, Dr al Kaabi said that these set of penalties were issued after careful examination of irregularities in terms and conditions set in the contract between Awqaf and Haj operators. He added that Awqaf had formed a committee to look into pilgrims' complaints right after they came back from pilgrimage, noting that minor complaints were settled directly amongst pilgrims and operators.
The SCHU also examined preparations for next Haj season and issued some of the recommendations for improving Haj service quality. It suggested studying the possibility of providing buses alongside the Haj train in Arafat when need be. It also proposed reviewing the refund policy in the service contract when the pilgrim cancels his pilgrimage to the effect that the returning amount should not exceed 50 per cent.
On this occasion, the Committee praised the valuable support Awqaf and the Official Haj Delegation are receiving from from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Such a special interest in the mission of the Delegation has reflected positively on its tasks and services, which receives increasing satisfaction from pilgrims, he said.
SCHU consists of representatives from the Ministries of Interior, Justice and Health as well as from Youth and Sport Authority through the UAE Scout, the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai and Awqaf.
 













