addthis_pub="newawqaf";















According to recent statistics issued by the information technology department, Awqaf's website attracted about 2 million visits in 2012. The number of unique visitors last year also increased to reach a record high of approximately 1,120,000 compared to 2011. This year more than 406,000 visitors browsed the website since beginning of January.
According to the same statistics, the webtraffic hit a high peak twice last year during the holy month of Ramadan and Haj season, recording around 256,000 and 107,000 respectively. The sections mostly viewed were the online Fatwa by as many as 487,000 visits, seconded by Friday sermon with approximately 42,000 visits.
In a statement, Awqaf's director general, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, said, "the growing number of visits to Awqaf website came as a result of the regular update of content and the introduction of new electronic services, which have helped customers to have a quick and better access to them. Awqaf has also afforded to public special pages for career, applying for building a mosque, and an interactive map guide to find mosques."
Moreover the launch of Awqaf application on smart phones and tablets at Gitex Technology Week in October, 2012 has considerably channeled more visits to the website. The number of visits through these devices has since then doubled by up to six times, said Ms Mariam Rashid al Braiki, the IT department director at Awqaf.
"With more services on the pipeline as part of the electronic transformation process underway, the website is expected to attract more users in the future. Along with this process, Awqaf is planning to implement new website structure, design and content enhancement as per the Awqaf strategic plan approved by the Cabinet," Dr al Kaabi said.
It is noteworthy that the website was first created in 2007 with the purpose of supporting the role of Awqaf as the UAE leading entity in managing Islamic affairs and promoting the Islamic principles of moderation and tolerance. It is also a useful communication platform for Awqaf to interact with members of the community, understand their needs and act on them.
Awqaf website (www.awqaf.gov.ae) was awarded the Technological Innovation Prize at the level of UAE in the category of governmental entities and official authorities offered by the Pan Arab Web Award Academy (PAWAA) and in 2012 the Golden and Strategic 2012 E-Government Web Awards from the same body.
At the level of government websites, it received a full mark (100 percent) assessment by the UAE Federal e-government for the years 2010 and 2011.
 













