addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In coordination with the Public Safety and Emergency Services at Abu Dhabi Police, Awqaf practiced an evacuation of its building for a fire drill.
Awqaf's director, HE Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, who led the evacuation, said, the drill was part of Awqaf's effort to ensure a safe environment and increase employees' awareness and ability to deal with cases of emergency. He added that it was also an opportunity for rescuers from Awqaf to have a hand-on-experience on performing emergency evacuations, using safety tools available in the building for minimising damage.
The initiative came to bring into focus the directives of the UAE wise leadership and Awqaf strategic plan regarding efforts in ensuring safety by preparing staff through specialised workshops to increase their awareness and skills to reduce accidents and prevent risks. Through such efforts, Awqaf is putting into effect its occupational health and safety policy, said Dr al Kaabi.
Praising the positive response of the Abu Dhabi Police GHQ, Dr al Kaabi highlighted its role in providing training on handling life-threatening risks and the great progress it had achieved in all fields. He added that there was a continuous and fruitful cooperation between Awqaf and Abu Dhabi Police with regard to promoting public awareness in various areas.
The fire drill scenario began when false smoke was released in one of the floors, followed by ringing the fire alarm. Awqaf emergency team contacted the civil defence brigade and switched on the ventilation fans in the exit staircases. Then they evacuated all employees and walked them out to the assembly point outside the Awqaf building. The evacuation took three minutes.
Meanwhile, the fire brigade and the emergency unit led by traffic patrol reached the site. The brigade, including paramedics, put out the smoke and executed a false rescue of an employee, who was supposedly suffocated. Later, the evacuation leader declared the fire drill was over and successful.
 













