addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, Lord of the worlds, the Sovereign of the Day of Recompense.  I exalt Him as is befitting to His Majesty and Virtues. I bear witness there is no deity worthy of worship save Him Alone, having no partners. He is the most just of judges and is the swiftest of accountants.
I also certify that Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best friend and companion, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord and fear a Day when no father will avail his son, nor will a son avail his father at all. Indeed, the promise of Allah is truth, so let not the worldly life delude you and be not deceived about Allah by the Deceiver." (Luqman: 33).
Dear Muslims,
One day while the Prophet pbuh was sitting in the company of some people, (The angel) Jibreel came and asked, "What is faith?" Allah's Apostle replied, 'Faith is to believe in Allah, His angels, (the) meeting with Him, His Apostles, and to believe in Resurrection." 
Believing in the Last Day is indeed an article of Iman (faith) as Allah the most Exalted says, "O you who have believed, believe in Allah and His Messenger and the Book that He sent down upon His Messenger and the Scripture which He sent down before. And whoever disbelieves in Allah, His angels, His books, His messengers, and the Last Day has certainly gone far astray." (Annisaa: 136). Variations of its name include the Day of Resurrection, Gathering, Judgment and Reckoning.
Believing in it prompts us to elevate our morality and seek sincere connection with others. As Muslims, we think on the outcome of our deeds as we believe we are going to stand in front of Allah for questioning with regard to what preceded of our sins and what will follow.
That is why Allah the most Exalted asked us to recite in every prayer the following verse: "Sovereign of the Day of Recompense." (Al Fatiha: 4).
In the same regard a poet said, what means, a person will one day reap what he sows and he will be judged according to how he judges others.
On the Last Day, the utmost Divine justice shall prevail when Allah is questioning His Creation; no one's deeds shall go in vain and the righteous and the unrighteous cannot be treated equally. Allah the most High says, "Or do those who commit evils think We will make them like those who have believed and done righteous deeds - [make them] equal in their life and their death? Evil is that which they judge." (Al Jathiya: 21).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Because of the importance of this day, a glimpse of it  was described in the holy Quran as a reminder to us. Allah, may Glory be to him, says, "O mankind, fear your Lord. Indeed, the convulsion of the [final] Hour is a terrible thing. On the Day you see it every nursing mother will be distracted from that [child] she was nursing, and every pregnant woman will abort her pregnancy, and you will see the people [appearing] intoxicated while they are not intoxicated; but the punishment of Allah is severe." (Al Haj: 1-2).
He also says, "But when there comes the Deafening Blast on the Day a man will flee from his brother and his mother and his father and his wife and his children. For every man, that Day, will be a matter adequate for him." (Abasa: 33-37).
For his part, our Prophet pbuh described the situation of people on that particular day, saying, "Allah will bring a believer near Him and shelter him with His Screen and ask him: Did you commit such-and-such sins? He will say: Yes, my Lord. Allah will keep on asking him till he will confess all his sins and will think that he is ruined. Allah will say: 'I did screen your sins in the world and I forgive them for you today', and then he will be given the book of his good deeds. Regarding infidels and hypocrites (their evil acts will be exposed publicly) and the witnesses will say: These are the people who lied against their Lord. Behold! The Curse of Allah is upon the wrongdoers."
Dear Muslims,
The Last Day and the judgment that awaits everyone should serve as a wake-up call to hearts and minds to do good deeds. Practically, this must prompt people to engage in good actions. For example, children must treat their parents nicely, neighbours deal nicely with each other, employees discharge their responsibilities with honesty, workers perform their job perfectly, employers fulfill the rights of their dependent workers, the older show sympathy towards the younger, and the rich feed the poor.
All of this is for winning Allah's satisfaction and for fear of the tribulation of that Day. Indeed Allah has promised the pious salvation in the Hereafter as recompense in return for their good actions and speech.
He the Almighty says, "And they give food in spite of love for it to the needy, the orphan, and the captive, [Saying], "We feed you only for the countenance of Allah. We wish not from you reward or gratitude. Indeed, We fear from our Lord a Day austere and distressful." So Allah will protect them from the evil of that Day and give them radiance and happiness." (Al Insan: 8-11).
Truly, it is the Day of Judgment when the hearts will fearfully turn about and the distress will heighten. But true believers will always ready themselves to it because they trust that it is inevitable. Thus they will pray and supplicate to their Creator and give Zakat and charity. Standing in awe for meeting their Lord, they keep away from sins, holding a mixed feeling of fear and hope for a day when no worship or actions are accepted anymore.
Allah the most exalted says, "[Are] men whom neither commerce nor sale distracts from the remembrance of Allah and performance of prayer and giving of zakah. They fear a Day in which the hearts and eyes will [fearfully] turn about." (Annur: 37).
Indeed, glad tidings to whoever repents and gets ready to the Day of Reckoning by devoting himself wholly to acts of kindness and charity so the latter will testify for him when standing in front of Allah.
With this in mind, we ask Allah to make us among those who listen and follow the best of what they listen to. May Allah also protect us all and help us to obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah as you are ordered to do, and be aware that survival can be attained by following the teachings of Islam, purifying the heart from hatred and sin residues, acquiring good manner and being nice to people. In this regard, Allah the most High says, "The Day when there will not benefit [anyone] wealth or children, but only one who comes to Allah with a sound heart." (Ashuaraa: 88-89).
On the same matter, Ali Ibn Abu Talib said, "this world is ending while the Hereafter is approaching. Each of them has its own sons and daughters. And be those of the Hereafter (i.e., working for the second life) and not of this world, for today there is work (that can be accepted) but there is no (immediate) judgment, but tomorrow there is (immediate) judgment yet no actions (that can be accepted).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to bless us with beneficial knowledge, let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













