addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf stated that it achieved full Emiratisation of leadership and executive positions. It is also engaged in the process of hiring Emirati Imams and training Emirati students in Islamic studies. The announcement was made by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, the chairman of Awqaf, during its staff annual gathering held at the Officers' Club in Abu Dhabi under the motto: "in the love of UAE".
The meeting was also attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, executive directors, branch directors and heads of departments.
In a statement, Dr al Mazrouei mentioned that Awqaf had launched its mobile application in Arabic and English to help extend its e-services to a wider audience inside and outside UAE. More services were also afforded on the website with the aim of helping members of the community access them easily, he said, adding that this would eventually promote a positive interaction with the public.
Awqaf also announced its Award for Occupational Excellence and Innovation. It is designed to encourage members of staff to take initiatives and excel in their performance, whilst taking on collaborative work and discharging their own responsibilities in an effective manner.
Relatedly, Dr al Mazrouei said that honouring Awqaf employees was in line with the UAE wise leadership's keen interest in supporting government employees by acknowledging their efforts, adding that this was also a recognition to their achievements during recent years which led Awqaf to win many prizes from various organisations.
Another area of interest for Awqaf was preaching and guidance, said Dr al Mazrouei, explaining that one of the objectives here is to increase the skills and competence of Khateebs. Some of them were recently allowed to diversify sermons' topics to increase benefits.
He added that Awqaf boasted high profile scholars and set a plan to increase the number of Emirati Khateebs.
Dr al Mazrouei further highlighted the special support to Awqaf from the UAE leaders, saying they had devoted great interest to religious affairs in the knowledge of their positive importance in building humans by directing their potentials and energies to the good service of humanity and progress.
On another note, he explained that Awqaf had a strategy to develop the performance of their employees, equip them with excellent skills and encourage them to be creative. This had largely benefitted Awqaf, leading it to perform well as it was evidenced in many of its innovative projects, initiatives, strategic plans and programmes of excellence.  
Finally, Dr al Mazrouei spoke of Awqaf's various awareness programmes to encourage Waqf donations and the IT systems developed and implemented at Awqaf, including, but not limited to, Haj and Umra, mosques, Quranic memorisation centres, Waqf asset archive and Waqf financial module as well as the content management system.
 
 
 
 













