addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah Who created and proportioned. And Who destined and then guided. He creates the two mates-male and female. I bear witness that there is no deity except Allah Alone, having no partners. He created for people from among themselves that they may find tranquility in them, and He placed between them affection and mercy.
I also testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger and Servant, who of all people reached the highest reverence and had the most outstanding character. He was the best friend and companion, the best husband to wives and kindest to sons and daughters. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
Dear Believers,
As a sign of His mercy to human beings, Allah has afforded to them mates from among themselves as He says, "And Allah has made for you from yourselves mates." (Annahl: 72). Blessed with Allah's mercy as such, the spouses are most likely to enjoy tranquility and a relation based on sound foundations. This, in turn, favours a coherent family and protects it from collapse.
At the core of it is a feeling of harmony between the two spouses, for Allah says, "It is He who created you from one soul and created from it its mate that he might dwell in security with her," (Al Araf: 189, meaning each soul is yearning for its pair for comfort. Thus, spouses not only keep company to each other, but they also complement each other. Allah the most Exalted says, "They are clothing for you and you are clothing for them." (Al Baqara: 187).
Dear Servants of Allah,
This sense of integration requires of both spouses to treat one another justly. So neither should the husband act arrogantly, nor should the wife belittle him. Rather they need to behave out of love and compassion, according to what Allah says, "And of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquility in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy." (Arrum: 21).
Indeed, through mutual love and affection, spouses can enjoy tranquility and comfort. Thus, the husband forgives his wife if she is less able to fulfill her obligations, and so does she if her husband is sick or falls short of meeting his duties. This is how the family can preserve its stability and solve problems that may arise because of differences in ways of thinking and behaving.
So if this happens, they need to think positively, and ignore mistakes. Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "A believing man should not hate a believing woman. If he dislikes one of her characteristics, he will be pleased with another."
This Hadith calls on believers to avoid detesting their wives, for this can cause separation.  Instead, they need to focus more on what they like in them more than on what they hate in them. Allah says on this matter, "For if you dislike them - perhaps you dislike a thing and Allah makes therein much good." (Annisaa: 19).
This verse asks believers if they dislike their wives because of some errors or shortcomings to stay patient and do not rush into making a decision. This recalls to mind the many wives whose husbands may have been bored of them and wished to quit them. But unexpectedly, they would give birth to good children and eventually bring immense joy to their fathers.
Ibn Umar, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "indeed a man will seek Allah's guidance, and He will choose for him. Not sooner will he be looking into the outcome and realise the good choice made for him.
Dear Muslims,
The family happiness cannot be achieved without having well-brought up children. This is why Ibrahim pbuh prayed to Allah saying, "My Lord, make me an establisher of prayer, and [many] from my descendants. Our Lord, and accept my supplication." (Ibrahim: 40). The Prophet Zakaria pbuh also supplicated to Allah saying, "At that, Zakaria called upon his Lord, saying, "My Lord, grant me from Yourself a good offspring. Indeed, You are the Hearer of supplication." (Al Imarn: 38). Some of the supplications also include: "And those who say, "Our Lord, grant us from among our wives and offspring comfort to our eyes and make us an example for the righteous." (Al Furqan: 74).
Good offspring is a source of joy, with whom our Prophet pbuh will outnumber other nations on the Day of Resurrection as he said, "Marry women who are loving and very prolific, for I shall outnumber the peoples by you." Yet our children need good education, a responsibility assigned to parents as it is mentioned in the holy Quran. Allah the most Exalted says, "O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones." (Attahrim: 6).
Interpreting this verse, Abdullah Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "obey Allah and avoid sins. Order your families to remember Allah so He will protect you from Fire."  This means parents need to be aware of the importance of dedicating themselves to their children's education. Our Prophet pbuh said, "The best of you is the one who is best to his wife, and I am the best of you to my wives."
With this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to grant us from among our wives and offspring comfort to our eyes and make us an example for the righteous. May Allah also protect us all and help us to obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O ye who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and know that reducing marriage expenses is one of the factors that helps achieve family stability. It was reported by Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, that the Prophet pbuh said, "some of what women want is being helped in her matters (of life) and having a moderate dowry."
Thus to achieve a strong stable family in the UAE, the government established the Marriage Fund with the aim of easing the burden on Emiratis and linking them to the customs and values of their community. This initiative is a good example to follow as its activities have paid off after it held group weddings and helped hundreds of young Emirati couples to get married.
As parents we have a responsibility towards our marriageable sons and daughters by refraining from engaging in excessive spending on wedding celebrations. This is in order to help the newlywed husband avoid the hassle of eventual indebtedness and be more ready to set up his own family with less financial burdens.
Dear Muslims,
Allah has asked you to abide by an order He has been the first to undertake, then His angels, for He says, "Indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
The Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to bless us with beneficial knowledge, let our hearts be full of Your gratitude and keep our tongue moist with Your remembrance. May Allah bless us with good provision, accepted work, well-being in mind and body and blessed living life and progeny.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah guide us to know what is good, make us benefit from what we have learnt, and increase our knowledge.
O Allah, Give us piety and purify our souls. You are the Master and the Lord of souls. O Sustainer, amend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













