addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Mohammed V University - Agdal - Abu Dhabi awarded master degrees to two Emirati students after they successfully defended their theses. The defence ceremony was held in the Officers' Club in Abu Dhabi, and was attended by HE Dr Mugheer Khamis al Khaili, director general of Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC), HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Crown Prince Court, and a host of students and their families as well as a number of intellectuals.
Both researchers Mariya al Hattali and Wadima Ghanem bin Hammouda al Dhaheri obtained a distinction for their theses, respectively: Istisnaa (manufacturing) Contract according to Islamic Finance, and  The Environment in light of Islamic Law Principles and the Protection Efforts by the UAE: Masdar in Abu Dhabi as an Example.
Dr al Mazrouei, who was the head of the first jury, extended his gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, for his keen interest in preparing Emiratis to contribute to the UAE progress through the establishment of universities and institutes. 
Dr al Mazrouei also praised the special support to the University from HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Chairman of Abu Dhabi Education Council.
This led to the graduation of talented graduates in Islamic studies, who could contribute to translate the UAE wise leadership's directives about the necessity of upgrading the contemporary religious discourse based on principles of moderation, Dr al Mazrouei said.
He added that these graduates would also feed Awqaf with scholars in Fatwa, preachers, Imams, Muezzins, Quranic teachers, among others, as part of the Emiratisation of the religious discourse undertaken by Awqaf. He  mentioned that many students in bachelor, master and Phd levels were studying towards that end.
The first thesis on Istisnaa highlights the development of Islamic banking legal framework, being a timely and relevant subject because the UAE has emerged as a world economic centre for Islamic banking activities.
Dr Mohamed Kajoui, Dr Ahmed al Sanoussi and Dr Hayat al Brahmati were members of the Jury.
The second thesis dealt with the state's efforts in protecting environment. It draws on authoritative sources, reports on field visits to Masdar city and participations in specialised conferences as well as official documents concerning initiatives for protecting the environment in UAE.
Dr al Kaabi headed the second jury, which included Dr Mohammed al Maghraoui and Dr Rachida Boukhebra.
Ms al Dhaheri analysed the environment issue from a religious perspective, but at the same time consolidated it with extra documentation, such as the UAE federal law regarding the protection of environment and the economic activities in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi and the sayings of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, as well as his efforts in this domain as evidenced in the number of accolades he received.
 
 













