addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
First sermon 
All praise is due to Allah. We exalt Him, seek His help and His forgiveness. We seek refuge in Allah from the evil of our souls, and the adverse consequences of our deeds. Whomsoever Allah guides cannot be misguided, and whomsoever Allah leads astray cannot  be guided. I testify that there is no deity that is worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I further witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.      
As to what follows, please obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, as He says, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
 Dear Believers,
Please be aware that Paradise is the ultimate home of the righteous, just as Allah says, "That is Paradise, which We give as inheritance to those of Our servants who were fearing of Allah ." (Maryam: 63). Therefore whoever admitted to it shall be the winner and whoever is denied access to it shall be the loser.
Allah the Almighty says, "So he who is drawn away from the Fire and admitted to Paradise has attained [his desire]. And what is the life of this world except the enjoyment of delusion." (Al Imran: 185).
That is why Allah has urged His servants to seek every avenue leading to it like when He says, "Race toward forgiveness from your Lord and a Garden whose width is like the width of the heavens and earth, prepared for those who believed in Allah and His messengers. That is the bounty of Allah which He gives to whom He wills, and Allah is the possessor of great bounty." (Al Hadid: 21).
In the same regard, our Prophet pbuh recommended us to pray to Allah and ask for it. He said, "whoever asks Allah for Paradise three times, Paradise will say: 'O Allah, admit him to Paradise.' And whoever seeks protection from Hell three times, Hell will say: 'O Allah, protect him from the Fire." He pbuh also described levels of paradise and urged us to seek Al Firdaws, being the highest of all.
He pbuh also said, "In Paradise, there are a hundred levels, what is between every two levels is like what is between the heavens and the earth. Al-Firdaws is its highest level, and from it the four rivers of Paradise are made to flow forth. So when you ask Allah, ask Him for Al Firdaws."
 Dear Servants of Allah,
Paradise is the home of Allah's blessings to His Creation where He the most Exalted has availed unlimited favours that no one has ever seen, felt or perceived. And none of this world's delights, be they wealth, food and drinks, are any equivalent to the enjoyment of the Hereafter.     
Allah says, "Say, The enjoyment of this world is little, and the Hereafter is better for he who fears Allah. And injustice will not be done to you, [even] as much as a thread [inside a date seed]." (Annisaa: 77).
Because Paradise is an eternal bliss, there is no death, nor any suffering, pain or distress. People will never grow old or live in misery.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "There would be an announcer (in Paradise) who would make this announcement: Verily there is in store for you (everlasting) health and that you should never fall ill and that you live (forever) and do not die at all. And that you would remain young and never grow old. And that you would always live in affluent circumstances and never become destitute, as words of Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, are: "And it would be announced to them: This is the Paradise. You have been made to inherit it for what you used to do." (Al Arfaf: 43).
 Dear Believers,
This is Paradise to whose wide gates rush people, longing to it for the hope of receiving its bliss, as our Guide pbuh said, "Indeed paradise has eight gates, the distance between each two of them is the rider's march in seventy years." To it admitted the pious and the righteous according to what Allah says, "But those who feared their Lord will be driven to Paradise in groups until, when they reach it while its gates have been opened and its keepers say, "Peace be upon you; you have become pure; so enter it to abide eternally therein." (Azzumar: 73).
When they enter and walk therein, they will breathe its fresh and fragrant air. How can it not be so if its soil is of saffron and stones are of pearls and rubies?
About it, our Master pbuh was said, "O Messenger of Allah, from what is Paradise constructed of? He said, 'Bricks of silver and bricks of gold. Its mortar is musk of a strong fragrance, and its pebbles are pearls and rubies, and its earth is saffron'."
Those who are granted Paradise shall rush to their homes and palaces, which they will recognise in the same way they did in their lifetime. Allah says in this regard, "He will guide them and amend their condition. And admit them to Paradise, which He has made known to them." (Muhammad: 5-6).
In Paradise, they will find the ultimate enjoyment they have never imagined as a reward for what they have done. Allah the Almighty says, "There will circulate among them young boys made eternal. When you see them, you would think them [as beautiful as] scattered pearls. And when you look there [in Paradise], you will see pleasure and great dominion. Upon the inhabitants will be green garments of fine silk and brocade. And they will be adorned with bracelets of silver, and their Lord will give them a purifying drink. [And it will be said], "Indeed, this is for you a reward, and your effort has been appreciated." (Al Insan: 19:22).
 Dear Believers,
The Paradise bliss is utterly perfect availed by Allah to whoever believes in Him venerates Him and follows His path. Even those who will get the lowest levels of Paradise, they will still enjoy a permanent delight and a great kingdom.
It was reported that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Musa (Moses) pbuh asked his Lord, 'who amongst the inhabitants of Paradise will be the lowest in rank?' He said, 'It will be a person who will be admitted into Paradise last of all when all its dwellers have entered it. It will be said to him: Enter Paradise. But he will say: O my Lord! How should I enter while the people have settled in their apartments and taken their shares?
 It will be said to him: Will you be satisfied and pleased if you have a kingdom like that of a monarch of the world? He will say: I will be content, my Lord. Allah will say: For you is that, and like that and like that and like that and like that. He will say at the fifth time: I am well-pleased, my Lord. Allah will say: It is for you and ten times more like it. You will have whatever your soul desires and whatever your eyes could delight in. He will say: I am well-pleased, my Lord.'
Musa pbuh said, 'who will be of the highest rank in Paradise.' Allah said, 'they are those whom I chose and I established their honour with My Own Hand. I attest with My Seal that they will be blessed with such bounties as no eye has seen, no ear has heard and no human mind has perceived'."
So congratulations to those who yearn for Paradise and its pleasures. And for its sake they seek ways to attain  it by performing prayers and other acts of worship and keeping away from prohibitions. They also strive to get closer to Allah through more voluntary prayers and good deeds so that Allah grant them higher rank in Paradise. He the Almighty says, "Indeed, those who have believed and done righteous deeds - they will have the Gardens of Paradise as a lodging." (Al Khaf: 107).
With this in mind we seek Allah's favour to guide us to do whatever good acts and bestow upon us His mercy and grant us Paradise. We also seek His grace to help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah as you are ordered to do and know that the greatest pleasure in Paradise is the sight of Allah, the most Bountiful. Our Prophet pbuh said, "When those deserving of Paradise would enter it, the Blessed and the Exalted would ask: Do you wish Me to give you anything more? They would say, 'Have You not brightened our faces? Have You not made us enter Paradise and saved us from Fire?' Allah the Almighty would lift the veil, and of things given to them nothing would be dearer to them than the sight of their Lord, the Mighty and the Glorious." He pbuh recited the verse: "For them who have done good is the best [reward] and extra." (Yunus: 26).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).













