addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















 
to download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah with an abundantly beautiful and sanctified Praise, one that fits His never ending bounties. I testify that there is no deity that is worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I further witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, the leader of the pure and pious. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.      
As to what follows, please obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Believers,
Islam cares for individuals and is considerate of their differences. More importantly, it devotes special interest to weak sections of them, calling for treating them kindly and providing for their needs. It also associates these acts of goodness with piety as is mentioned in this verse: "Righteousness is not that you turn your faces toward the east or the west, but [true] righteousness is [in] one who believes in Allah, the Last Day, the angels, the Book, and the prophets and gives wealth, in spite of love for it, to relatives, orphans, the needy." (Al Baqara: 177).
Righteousness also involves taking care of widows and orphans, being a benevolent deed and act of civility advocated by Islam. Orphans are children who lost their parents and came to be dispossessed of their care and affection. To alleviate their sufferings, Allah the most Exalted ordered charity to them when He says, "Worship Allah and associate nothing with Him, and to parents do good, and to relatives, orphans." (Annisaa: 36).
He also called for treating them nicely and sponsoring them as He says, "So as for the orphan, do not oppress [him]." (Aduha: 9);  "They ask you, [O Muhammad], what they should spend. Say, "Whatever you spend of good is [to be] for parents and relatives and orphans." (Al Baqara: 215).
In a related note, He the Almighty warned against taking over orphans' possessions "Indeed, those who devour the property of orphans unjustly are only consuming into their bellies fire. And they will be burned in a Blaze." (Annisaa: 10).
For his part, the Prophet pbuh urged us to sponsor orphans by highlighting the ultimate recompense awaiting whoever takes charge of one and offers him care and love. He said, "any Muslim, who hosts an orphan, born into Muslim parents,  and offers him food and drink until he becomes self-sufficient, will certainly be rewarded paradise."
He also promised the orphan sponsor to dwell near him in Paradise when he said, "I and the one who takes the responsibility of an orphan will be in Paradise thus," and he joined his middle finger and forefinger.
In fact there is no greater virtue than being close to the Prophet pbuh on the Day of Resurrection. This is a dear pursuit for whoever seeks salvation on that day, which will be obtained by orphan sponsors.
One rationale behind offering this great reward is to highlight the role of prophets sent to peoples, who were as yet unaware of religion. They came to educate them in the best interest of their matters of religion and life. Sponsors can take on a similar mission of teaching those whom in charge of matters of religion and life, and guiding them in the best of their interest.
Sponsoring is financial, but much of it also is educational. It is imperative therefore to provide orphans the right guidance, urge them to follow the best of virtues and avoid vices. In so doing , it is sensible to speak good words and offer a gentle touch to let them feel good about themselves so they can lead normal life away from social and ethical problems.
This way they will be empowered to positively contribute to their communities thanks to the early care they have received. Rightly guided from the beginning, many may emerge to be genius and become a valuable asset to their nation. In fact, the progress of societies depends largely on the extent of benefiting from its human resources, a building block of civilisations.
Dear Servants of Allah,
The second category of vulnerable people to which Islam devotes great care is widows. Our Master pbuh said, "O Allah, I declare inviolable the rights of two weak ones: the orphans and women."
A woman is never severely weaker than when she loses her husband. She will suffer the deprivation of her intimate companion and source of support for her and her now fatherless children. Indeed it is tough to be a widow, a change in her life that causes her to feel down and anxious.
For these reasons the Prophet pbuh used to recite a great deal of remembrance, engage little in idle talk, make the prayer long and keep the khutba short, and he would not refrain from walking with a widow or poor person and tending to their needs.
Yet, however painful it is to lose a husband, she must not give in to the pressure of the situation and collapse. Instead she needs to pull ahead and continue to give, making her patience and strong faith a forceful power that benefits her family and with which to embrace her children.
Indeed her awareness of her major role in educating her children and responsibility towards them as well as the hope of receiving reward from Allah should motivate her to strive hard to win the ultimate blessing of Paradise.
Dear Muslims,
A child, who has lost family care and turned to society for assistance, is also considered as an orphan. So congratulations to whoever helps a widow, sponsors an orphan or any other child with no family assistance.
Caring for these categories of people also includes visiting them during happy or sad occasions. And the fortunate are those who have succeeded in touching the hearts of the needy with joy and comforting the underprivileged. They are also blessed to be amongst the first ones to enter Paradise.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "every act of charity is correctness. The people of correctness in this world are the people of correctness in the next world... And the first who will enter the Paradise are the people of correctness."
With this in mind we seek Allah's favour to help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be keen to care after those who have lost family assistance. You can do this by directly providing help to them, supporting the role of institutions that work on finding suitable foster-families for them, raising them according to Islamic teachings and authentic values and customs, and offering them job opportunities.
These are national, social and humane duties as well as acts of kindness which Allah has ordered us to undertake, just as He says, "And do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj: 77).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













