addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He sent down the holy Quran as a light and guidance for the worlds, and made it a mercy to the faithful. I praise him for the blessing of Islam and I bear witness that there is no deity that is worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I further witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, the leader of the pure and pious. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
As to what follows, please obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, as He says, "O you who have believed, do not put [yourselves] before Allah and His Messenger but fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Hearing and Knowing." (Al Hujurat: 1).  
Dear Believers,
The holy Quran is a gift from Allah to His servants, an enlightenment for those who seek its guidance and a protection for those who believe in it. It is also the solid rope of Allah, the wise remembrance and the right path, which neither distracts desires, nor confuses tongues. The thrill of reading it never dies and its marvels never deplete. Whoever adheres to it is sincere and deserves reward. And whoever rules by its commandments shall never fail to establish justice. Also anyone who calls on people to it shall be rightly guided.
Al Hujurat (the rooms) is one Surat that is inclusive of all virtues highlighting noble social values and customs. Indispensable to any sensible person, this set of moral ideas regulates the relationship between individuals and communities. Some of these ethics ask people for carefully checking the accuracy of circulated news for fear of disrupting social relations and eventually breaking up people's unity as a result of the dissemination of falsehood.
Allah the Almighty says, "O you who have believed, if there comes to you a disobedient one with information, investigate, lest you harm a people out of ignorance and become, over what you have done, regretful." (Al Hujurat: 6).
The verse calls for verifying whether news are true or false. Failing to do so may easily cause division and promote hatred, which may sometimes happen because of an unfounded slander or unconfirmed news. That is why the holy Quran has taught us to get news from their sources as it is mentioned in Surat Al Maida (116) where Allah-despite He is the All Knowing- asked his Messenger Isa (Jesus) pbuh saying, "And [beware the Day] when Allah will say, "O Jesus, Son of Mary, did you say to the people, 'Take me and my mother as deities besides Allah ?'" He will say, "Exalted are You! It was not for me to say that to which I have no right. If I had said it, You would have known it. You know what is within myself, and I do not know what is within Yourself. Indeed, it is You who is Knower of the unseen."
For his part, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh warned us of spreading gossip, and reporting evil speech to spread differences among people. He said, "the best of people in the eyes of Allah are those when remembered their merits are praised by name of Allah- while the worst people are the gossipmongers, who seek to separate between lovers and cause others distress and hardship."
Dear Muslims,
Surat Al Hujurat is also prohibiting behaviours that contradict faith and good manners. This relates to, for example, acts of bullying and name-calling, among others. They are interdicted because they tend to nurture feelings of animosity. In this regard, Allah says, "O you who have believed, let not a people ridicule [another] people; perhaps they may be better than them; nor let women ridicule [other] women; perhaps they may be better than them. And do not insult one another and do not call each other by [offensive] nicknames. Wretched is the name of disobedience after [one's] faith. And whoever does not repent - then it is those who are the wrongdoers." (Al Hujurat: 11).
In the same regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "A Muslim is the brother of a Muslim: he does not oppress him, nor does he fail him, nor does he lie to him, nor does he hold him in contempt. Taqwa (piety) is right here [and he pointed to his chest three times]. It is evil enough for a man to hold his brother Muslim in contempt."
Dear Servants of Allah,
In the same Surat, Allah has further called on us to establish a society bound by love and kindness in an environment in which people's lives, integrity and property are protected. Thus, the stronger must not dominate the weaker, the rich should help the needy, the neighbours visit each others, the healthy visit the sick and everyone must refrain from speaking ill of others.
Moreover, neither should any person ridicule other people, nor upset them. Rather he should coexist with them and they together should be united by the love for the religion and sense of nationhood. These are truly some of the characteristics Allah the Almighty would like to see in a society for He said, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted" (Al Hujurat: 13).
Bearing these morals in mind, we seek Allah's favour to make us among those who listen and follow the best of what they listen. May Allah also help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that Islam has forbidden backbiting because of the grave damage it causes to the individual and society alike. On this matter, Allah the most Almighty says, "And do not spy or backbite each other. Would one of you like to eat the flesh of his brother when dead? You would detest it. And fear Allah; indeed, Allah is Accepting of repentance and Merciful." (Al Hujurat: 12).
About this, our Prophet pbuh said, "Do you know what is backbiting?" They (the Companions) said, "Allah and His Messenger know best." Thereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said, "Backbiting implies your talking about your brother in a manner which he does not like." It was said to him "What is your opinion about this that if I actually find (that failing) in my brother which I made a mention of?" He said, "If (that failing) is actually found (in him) what you assert, you in fact backbited him, and if that is not in him it is a slander."
Indeed, the sanctity of the believer is dearest to Allah so much that it is not permissible for anyone to transgress a person's life, wealth and integrity. Our Master pbuh said, "Every Muslim's blood, property and honour are unlawful to be violated by another Muslim."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 













