addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf's executive director for Islamic affairs and chairman of the official Haj delegation (OHD), Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, said that the support from the UAE wise leadership was behind the success of the OHD in its mission. The statement was made during the Third GCC Haj Delegations' Meeting held in Muscat, Oman.
The OHD's activities and programmes have always been received with great satisfaction by pilgrims, making it at the forefront position, he said.
Speaking in the conference held from March 24 to 25, 2013, Mr al Mazrouei stated that the UAE leadership appointed the supreme permanent committee for Haj and Umra under the supervision of Awqaf to manage Haj and Umra affairs. The committee includes experts and specialists from all ministries and some specialised committees, which join efforts to offer the best services to pilgrims.
The conference discussed ways to exchange experiences and promote cooperation between GCC countries with the aim of upgrading services to pilgrims.
Mr al Mazrouei explained that the UAE managed Haj and Umra affairs by drafting relevant laws and assigning the responsibility of enforcing them to Awqaf. He further explained that Awqaf issues licences to operators, checks their compliance with standards and verifies the contracts between service providers and pilgrims.
Thanks to good organisation of Haj affairs led by Awqaf, the complaints from pilgrims have decreased, while their satisfaction increased, said al Mazrouei making reference to independent surveys.
Concerning the positive cooperation provided to the UAE delegation by the Saudi government, Mr al Mazrouei praised their invaluable efforts and the services they afford to pilgrims. He also extended his thanks to Omani government for its kind invitation, good organisation and hospitality, wishing positive cooperation to continue between countries in Haj affairs.
The conference stressed the importance of a joint approach to promote cooperation and interaction among the GCC countries' delegations and develop the management skills of personnel involved in Haj affairs. It also called for simplifying procedures and sharing information, organising exhibitions and lectures about delegations' achievements as well as launching awareness campaigns in collaboration with the Saudi Ministry of Haj.    
At the end of the conference, the participants agreed to proceed with the implementation of cooperation programmers and recommendations conducive to improving Haj services according to a practical methodology with clear goals.
 













