addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, who created the heavens and the earth and sent down for you rain from the sky, causing to grow thereby gardens of joyful beauty which you could not otherwise have grown the trees thereof.
I bear witness that there is no deity that is worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. He made the earth a stable ground and placed within it rivers and made for it firmly set mountains and placed between the two seas a barrier.
I also witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, the leader of the pure and pious. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
As to what follows, please obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, as He says, "And fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Muslims,
You are advised to contemplate the revelations of Allah, the most Exalted. Those, who do so, will realise the greatness of the Creator, the breath of His knowledge, the signs of His might and the undrained well of His bounties. Thoughtful of Allah's merits, they will further remember Him in all of their situations.
He the Almighty says, "Indeed, in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of the night and the day are signs for those of understanding. Who remember Allah while standing or sitting or [lying] on their sides and give thought to the creation of the heavens and the earth, [saying], "Our Lord, You did not create this aimlessly; exalted are You [above such a thing]; then protect us from the punishment of the Fire." (Al Imran: 190-191).
There are many revelations of His marvelous creation and absolute potency. He the most Exalted constructed seven strong heavens, made the earth a resting place and the mountains as stakes and subjected whatever is in the heavens and on the earth-all from Him- as a token of compassion and mercy for people.
Allah the Almighty says, "Do you not see that Allah has subjected to you whatever is on the earth and the ships which run through the sea by His command? And He restrains the sky from falling upon the earth, unless by His permission. Indeed Allah, to the people, is Kind and Merciful." (Al Haj: 65).
Such Divine signs are subject to the will of Allah alone and only. Therefore, no one avails the will to change their course, just as Allah the most High says, "Say, "Have you considered: if Allah should make for you the night continuous until the Day of Resurrection, what deity other than Allah could bring you light? Then will you not hear?" (Al Qasas: 71).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Other revelations of Him are earthquakes, the solar and lunar eclipse, rain, wind, to name but a few. These are all great signs that human beings can see and feel in various times, reminding them of the weakness of Man before the might of his Creator.
This way they submit to the will of Allah, and confirm the state of servitude to Him. In so doing, they also become certain that Allah's revelations underline His impressive wisdom and flawless design, which all come together, by His Will, in perfect agreement.
Allah the Almighty reminded us of the earthquake phenomenon when He says, "By the sky which returns [rain] and [by] the earth which cracks open, indeed, the Qur'an is a decisive statement, and it is not amusement." (Attariq: 11-14).
The cosmic revelations mentioned shall remind the believer of Allah, revive his heart, renew his faith and bring him always closer to his Lord. So whenever he feels the tremors of earth under his feet, he will evoke the verse saying, "When the earth is shaken with its [final] earthquake and the earth discharges its burdens and man says, "What is [wrong] with it?" - that Day, it will report its news because your Lord has commanded it." (Azzalzala: 1-5).
As a result, his faith grows stronger and so does his stamina, poised to do good acts.
Dear Believers,
Our Master Muhammad pbuh guided us to what should be done or said when seeing this kind of phenomena. For example when the wind blew, he used to say, "O Allah, indeed, I ask You for its good, the good of what is in it, and the good of what it has been sent with. And I seek refuge in You from its evil. The evil of what is in it, and the evil of what it has been sent with."
It was reported that upon hearing thunder, people should say: "How perfect He is, (the One) Whom the thunder declares His perfection with His praise, as do the angels out of fear of him."
During rainfall, the Prophet pbuh used to say, "O Allah, may it be a beneficial rain cloud." If it was too heavy, he would say, "O Allah, send down rain in our suburbs but not on us."
When he saw the solar or lunar eclipse, he used to say, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death of someone from the people but they are two signs amongst the signs of Allah. When you see them, stand up and pray."
With this in mind, we seek Allah's grace to make us amongst those, who will be thoughtful if they are advised, will ask for forgiveness if they have done wrong, will ponder on the Divine revelations when they see one and if they receive Allah's mercy will praise Him in return.
May Allah help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
 May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayat and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, please obey Allah as should be, and know that charity and supplications to the Almighty Allah are causes for removing affliction. It was narrated by Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, that the Prophet pbuh said, "Indeed charity extinguishes the Lord's anger and it protects against the evil death."
In yet another Hadith reported by Muad Ibn Jabal, may Allah be pleased with him, the Prophet pbuh said, "Certainly, prudence cannot spare you the outcome of your fate, but supplication will benefit your previous and subsequent happenings. O servants of Allah, pray to your Lord."
So congratulations to those who take on good deeds, such as giving alms, praying, remembering Allah and asking Him for forgiveness, for indeed these will benefit them in this life and the next.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 
 
 













