addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Higher Committee for Selecting Scholars, Guests of HH the President Sheikh Khalifa, may Allah protect him, praised this blessed annual tradition, calling it a precious addition to the spirituality of the holy month of Ramadan. It would enrich its days and nights with invaluable lessons, the committee said in a statement.
This came during a meeting at Awqaf's General Headquarter in Abu Dhabi, where the committee supplicated to Allah to protect HH Sheikh Khalifa and crown his effort with success for the good of the nation and citizens. They also prayed for the soul of the Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, who first initiated this tradition. Furthermore, they extended their thanks to HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs for his judicious stewardship of this programme.
The meeting was presided over by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, and attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, HE Mariam al Rumaithi, director general of the Family Development Foundation, Dr Ali bin Tamim, the cultural advisor at the office of HH Vice Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Executive Council, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Crown Prince Court of Abu Dhabi.
The committee decided to invite various government entities this year to select scholars by proposing topics that are relevant to them and serve their goals. The selection of scholars for this year will be made in the next meeting after receiving proposals. In previous years, this was done jointly by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and Awqaf, which used to coordinate hosting, planning and implementing the guests' programme.
On another level, the meeting discussed suggestions on how to develop the programme by broadening the scope of topics to include religious and social values and organising additional events to meet the needs of various segments of society. It further examined ways to ensure good organisation and attract larger number of people for attending the programme events.
The Higher Committee includes representatives from the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, the Executive Council of Abu Dhabi, Awqaf, the UAE Armed Forces, the Ministry of Interior, the General Women's Union in Abu Dhabi, the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai, Abu Dhabi Media and the Family Development Foundation in Abu Dhabi.
 













