addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of his tour to mosques under construction in the frameowrk of Mafhas Al Qatah programme, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi inspected the work progress in several projects in Ajman and Umm Al Quwain. He also visited some mosques being maintained by the Ministry of Public Works.
Dr al Kaabi called on contractors to respect the specifications set by Awqaf, which aimed to ensure mosques were designed beautifully by combining both modern and traditional styles. Awqaf is also keen to fit the houses of Allah with all facilities to help all worshippers perform their prayers with tranquility, he said.
Highlighting the increasing number of Mafhas al Qatah mosques, he added that Awqaf would continue building more mosques in residential areas across the country as need be.
On this occasion, he praised the support of the UAE leadership to Awqaf's projects, and highlighted in this regard the kind interest of HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme Council, Ruler of Ajman, and that of HH Sheikh Saud bin Rashid Al Mualla, Member of the Supreme Council, Ruler of Umm Al Quawain.
Dr al Kaabi also lauded the unlimited support of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
On another note, Dr al Kaabi toured several model Quranic memorisation centres in the two Emirates and was briefed on the course of study there. During his visit, he mentioned that Awqaf would continue opening new centres all over the UAE as part of its strategic plan.
Dr al Kaabi was accompanied by Mr Obeid Al Zaabi, the director of Awqaf's branch in Ajman and Mr Mohammed Ibrahim, the director of Awqaf's branch in Umm Al Quwain.
 













