addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of its ongoing plan to hold annual holy Quran memorisation contests, Awqaf announced April, 21 as the date for the preliminaries of this year's edition. The competition will see the participation of a large number of candidates from all segments of society, who will compete in five categories.
In a statement, Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director of Islamic affairs, said that this competition would achieve the vision of the leadership, who devote great care to the holy Quran and its learners. This is clearly seen in their continuous interest in the Quranic centres by increasing their number and developing them.
Mr al Mazrouei also highlighted all kinds of support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.    
The contest aims to motivate students at the holy Quranic centres and everyone interested to excel in memorising and reciting the holy Quran. Contestants will compete in five categories: full length Quran, 20 parts, 10 parts, five parts and three parts.
Candidates will be divided into three groups: students, seniors, and memorisers, males and females. Preliminaries are expected to finish by May, 2, giving way to winners to move to the final qualifiers due on May, 19 in Abu Dhabi.
Mr al Mazrouei mentioned that a committee had been formed at the level of Awqaf's branches across the UAE to select finalists from Awqaf Quranic centres as well as from memorisation sessions held in mosques.   
In the preliminaries, more than 1000 contestants entered the competition. Those who will pass this stage will qualify to the finals taking place on May, 19 in Abu Dhabi. Winners will be honoured during the holy month of Ramadan.
 













