addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I glorify Him as is befitting to Him. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. 
I also witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, just as He says, "O you who have believed, if you fear Allah, He will grant you a criterion and will remove from you your misdeeds and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty." (Anfal: 29).
Dear Muslims,
The holy Quran is a book of guidance and mercy for all mankind. Its verses are a balm for the diseases of the heart, a clear evidence and enlightenment. Allah the most Exalted says, "And We send down of the Quran that which is healing and mercy for the believers, but it does not increase the wrongdoers except in loss." (Israa: 82).
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh credited more virtues to some of its Suras, ones which further strengthen the faith and protect the self. For example, Al Falaq (The Daybreak) and Annas (The Mankind) were highlighted by him pbuh as having deep meaning and impact, and containing many facts and benefits. He pbuh said in this regard, "O you not know that last night certain Aya were revealed the like of which there is no precedence. They are: 'I seek refuge with the Lord of the dawn,' and 'Say: I seek refuge with the Lord of men'."
The two Suras are to protect people who fear others, and calm their worries. They are also the advice of the Prophet pbuh for whoever seeking good things and a way out from hardships.
It was narrated that Ibn Amir said, "I was driving the she-camel of the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) during a journey. He said to me, 'Uqba, should I not teach you two best Suras ever recited?' He then taught me: 'Say, I seek refuge in the Lord of the dawn,' and 'Say, I seek refuge in the Lord of men.' He did not see me much pleased (by these two Suras).
When he alighted for prayer, he led the people in the morning prayer and recited them in prayer. When the Messenger of Allah (pbuh) finished his prayer, he turned to me and said, 'O Uqba, how did you see?'."
So please read them every morning and evening for they are as such a refuge for those who are in distress. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, narrated that every night, when the Prophet would go to his bed, he would join his hands, then blow in them, as he recited in them: "Say: He is Allah, the One." And "Say: I seek refuge in the Lord of Al Falaq" and "Say: I seek refuge in the Lord of mankind." Then he would wipe as much as he was able to off his body with them, beginning with them first of his head and face, and the front of his body. He would do this three times.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Both Suras were fronted with a request seeking refuge in Allah from the evils of creatures all. It is a supplication to Him, asking His protection and assistance, and a safeguard against Satan. The latter has vowed to mislead believers. To stay safe, Allah orders us to seek His protection whenever we notice something distasteful or feel some uneasy, worrisome whispers crept into us.
He the Almighty says, "And if an evil suggestion comes to you from Satan, then seek refuge in Allah. Indeed, He is Hearing and Knowing." (Al Araf: 200).
It is also advisable to do so anytime we are engaging in anything, be it a worldly affair or an act of worship, mostly when reading the holy Quran. We need to remain alert because Satan has made it a life mission not to let a Muslim worshipping his Lord without whispering to him.
On this account, Allah the Almighty says, "So when you recite the Qur'an, [first] seek refuge in Allah from Satan, the expelled [from His mercy]." (Annahl: 98). Our Prophet pbuh used to say, "I seek refuge in Allah from the accursed devil, from his puffing up (nafkha), his spitting (naftha) and his evil suggestion (hamza)."
Dear Believers,
Surat Al Falaq advises us to seek Allah's protection from some evils, such as blowing in knots, about which He says in the same Sura, "And from the evil of the blowers in knots."
This refers to black magic or any similar practice, like predicting the future and fortunetelling by means of cups or positions of stars, and so on. Our Prophet pbuh strongly warned us against these things when he, for example, said, "Whoever ties a knot and blows on it, he has practiced magic; and whoever practices magic, he has committed Shirk; and whoever hangs up something (as an amulet) will be entrusted to it."
By the same token, Allah, the most Exalted, calls on us to seek His refuge from the ill-feelings of someone, who is jealous. He says, "And from the evil of an envier when he envies." (Al Falaq: 5). An envious person wishes for others to lack their blessings. Overwhelmed with such destructive sentiment, he may turn to cause evil to others by tracking their pitfalls and desiring to see them fail and suffer.
Because envy is condemned, please protect yourselves by reciting the holy Quran, remembering Allah and following the Prophet pbuh's advices and commands.
And in no way should you give in to Satan's whispers, or go to fortunetellers, charlatans and those who pretend they possess the power to heal. In fact each one of us can conduct Ruqiya for himself and his family using verses from the holy Quran, Dhikr and prayers as narrated from our Guide Muhammad pbuh, whether we are seeking cure or blessing. After all, each one of us is keen on himself better than anyone else, and knows best what afflicts him most.
Ruqiya was part of the Prophet pbuh's tradition as reported by his wife Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her. She said, "when Allah's Messenger (pbuh) fell ill, he recited over his body the the last three Suras of Quran and blew over him and when his sickness was aggravated I used to recite over him and rub him with his hand with the hope that it was more blessed."
He pbuh also would seek refuge in Allah for Al Hasan and Al Husain, saying, "I seek refuge for both of you in the perfect words of Allah from every devil and every poisonous thing and from the evil eye which influences." Moreover, he would call for reciting Ayat Al Kursi (the Throne Verse) and others so we remain always in Allah's care. He said, "If anyone recited two verses from the last of Surat Al Baqara at night, they will be sufficient for him."
Indeed, Allah's words are natural remedy for the diseases in one's heart, as He the Almighty says, "O mankind, there has to come to you instruction from your Lord and healing for what is in the breasts and guidance and mercy for the believers." (Yunus: 57). They thus offer the cure for those who are afflicted by ailments, which are causing their bodies to suffer and weaken.
Bearing this in mind, we supplicate to Allah to make the Quran the delight of our hearts, the light of our chests, the eliminator of our sorrows and the remover of our worries.
May Allah help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please obey Allah and be aware that He the Almighty ordered us in Surat Al Falaq to seek his protection once from three evils: darkness, blowers in knots and the envier. He, however, asked us- in Surat Annas- to do so three times with regard to another source of evil: the whispers of Satan. He does so to show us their serious danger for they are the gateway through which Satan breaks into our hearts to divert us from the right path and lead us to erroneous lust.
That is why Allah the most Exalted instructed us to seek refuge with Him, saying "Say, "I seek refuge in the Lord of mankind, the Sovereign of mankind. The God of mankind, from the evil of the retreating whisperer." (Annas: 1-4).
The retreating whisperer mentioned in this Sura describes the Satan who draws back when Man remembers Allah and asks for His protection. In the interpretation of the same Sura, Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said that Satan constantly rests upon Man's heart waiting at a close look to whisper to him anytime he is distracted. Fortunately though, if the person remembers Allah, he will force Satan to withdraw.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without
mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
TranslationMostapha El Mouloudi













