addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As well as being a multi service and cultural government entity, Awqaf has a special approach to the administration of sectors under its responsibility, for example, through direct involvement in building and maintaining mosques as well as developing and managing Quranic centres, endowments affairs in addition to Haj and Umra, said Awqaf's director, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, in interview to the UAE Newspaper Al Khaleej.
In managing Islamic affairs, being a centre of interest to all members of the community, Awqaf is fully committed to the true Islamic teachings related thereto, he added.
He highlighted in this respect the special interest of the wise leadership in maintaining mosques, revealing that a budget of AED 296 mn is allocated annually.
The number of mosques has therefore risen to 4,915 nationwide and all are built following the best of Islamic architectural styles. In a related matter, there are more than 36 Quranic centres with more than 30, 000 students, male and female, registered, he said.
Concerning the Emiratisation of Imams and Khateebs and their training, Dr al Kaabi stressed the vital importance of the project, explaining that they knew best the interests of citizens and could interact positively with their religious issues. In this regard, Awqaf is doing its best to attract qualified nationals and promote them in accordance to conditions in force, he said.
He also mentioned that the UAE Official Fatwa Centre issued nearly 1,5 mn Fatwas since its establishment until the end of last year.
On another level, Dr al Kaabi revealed that the endowment assets under Awqaf across the UAE amounted to about AED 1,2 billion.
He also expounded on the Awqaf plans concerning the Emiratisation of administrative staff, employees' advancement, Imams and Muezzins, Mafhas al Qatah programme, Waqf projects, Haj and Umra affairs, Quranic centres, Fatwa Centre and mosque maintenance.
 
 













