addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf is participating in "Asematy" initiative launched by Abu Dhabi Municipality and aimed at removing different aspects of damages in the capital city. This is held under the high patronage of her highness Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak, supreme chairperson of the Family Development Foundation and chairwoman of the UAE General Women's Union, as part of the AD Municipality's efforts to raise public awareness about maintaining the capital's aesthetic appearance by keeping it as one of the cleanest and most beautiful cities in the world.
In a statement, Awqaf's director general, HE Dr al Kaabi said that thanks to Allah and to the special interest of the wise leadership, the UAE had set a good example of protecting the environment. It has therefore become endowed with green oases that marvel the whole world and attract flocks of tourists, he said. He added that Awqaf drew objectives and goals supporting awareness about the environment amongst individuals through Friday sermons, annual preaching plan and its various publications.
Dr al Kaabi praised the unlimited support to Awqaf from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.    
On another note, he explained that Awqaf's participation in this initiative was for promoting its social responsibility and engagement with other government entities subscribed to "Asematy". The aim is to better serve the country and citizens and preserve their health and safety. With this regard, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that Islam urged us to protect the environment by keeping it clean, showing its beauty and removing anything that may damage it.
He further mentioned that Awqaf would contribute with many events such as lectures and programmes alongside with other institutions, the aim being to promote the cleanness of Abu Dhabi capital city and improve its unique aesthetic look.
 













