addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf welcomed the Grand Imam of Al Azhar, His Eminence Dr Ahmed Muhammad el Tayeb, in a historic visit.
Prof Dr Ahmed el Tayeb was greeted by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, in the presence of HE Dr Mohammed al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court, and Awqaf Executive directors.
The visit came following his election as the cultural personality of the year by the general secretariat of Sheikh Zayed Book Award, an honour that he attributed to the leading role of Al Azhar. On this occasion, Dr el Tayed expressed his deep appreciation to the UAE, its wise leadership, government, people and to its founder the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
He mentioned that Al Zahar was grateful to the UAE support to its institutions, including Sheikh Zayed Centre for Teaching Arabic for Speakers of other Languages. He said, "This centre is a good example of positive engagement between Al Azhar and every one working for reviving the Islamic civilisation, whether its language, laws and knowledge. I would like to stress here the special role of such a leader as the late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace. Wherever you go, he left behind him the fruits of the seeds he sowed."
In a statement, Dr al Mazrouei greeted Dr el Tayeb saying, "we would like to thank Your Eminence for your kind visit to Awqaf, and look forward to benefitting from your vast experience in Islamic affairs, whether in terms of theory, organisation and practice.
"We would also like to get acquainted with your experience in Islamic endowments, including ways of its development, investment and rational spending according to donors' conditions. This should be part of efforts to meet the community's health, educational, humanitarian and cultural needs."
Dr al Mazrouei called the visit beneficial for the wide prospects it would open for promoting mutual cooperation in various areas, including religious scholarship, the Arabic language, Fatwa, research and related conferences held in the two countries.
Then Dr el Tayeb and the delegation accompanying him attended a presentation on Awqaf given by Dr al Kaabi. Speaking of Awqaf's history and achievements, Dr al Kaabi highlighted especially the great support it is receiving from the UAE wise leadership. "It is a blessing from Allah that He has granted this nation and us with such judicial leaders who, thanks to their insight, have laid firm foundations of security, safety and moderation," he said.
For his part, Dr el Tayeb commented saying, "We are very delighted today to visit Awqaf led by our colleague HE Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei and, what we have seen is stunningly remarkable. We are extremely impressed by the use of modern technology, which has made Fatwa.., or a lecture reach out to Muslims wherever they are on this planet. We hope that Al Azhar and Awqaf join efforts to transfer some of the expertise to Egypt and to the Ministry of Endowments and Al Azhar."
Then Dr el Tayeb and his delegation toured the Official Fatwa Centre where they met Muftis and briefed on methods of issuing Fatwa. They were introduced also to modern electronic channels used to communicate with the public.
Later, he and his delegation, accompanied by Dr al Mazrouei as well as officials from Awqaf, visited some model Quranic centres in Abu Dhabi where they were briefed on the recently upgraded curriculums. This move came to crown Awqaf efforts in developing the community in full harmony between the moral, spiritual and cultural values and the requirements of both tradition and modernity.
 













