addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All thanks is to Allah, whom we seek His help and forgiveness. We seek refuge in Him from whatever evil our hearts conceal and from the consequences of our evil deeds. Whoever Allah grants guidance will never be led astray. Whoever He leads astray will never find guidance.
I attest that none is worthy of worship except Allah, who has no partners, and that Mohammad (pbuh) is His servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to obey Allah, may Glory be to Him, just as He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
Dear Believers,
As the Creator of the universe, Allah the Almighty knows everything and there is no small or big thing that can hide from His sight or go beyond His knowledge. He says, "Not absent from Him is an atom's weight within the heavens or within the earth or [what is] smaller than that or greater, except that it is in a clear register." (Sabaa: 3).
Allah the most Exalted knows also what is in people's mind, just as He says, "And We have already created man and know what his soul whispers to him, and We are closer to him than [his] jugular vein." (Qaf: 16). Truly He is a great Maker, Who is acquainted with that within the breasts, for He says, "Say, "Whether you conceal what is in your breasts or reveal it, Allah knows it. And He knows that which is in the heavens and that which is on the earth. And Allah is over all things competent." (Al Imaran: 29).
You are advised therefore to stay always conscious that Allah the most Exalted, is ever present, and always be certain that He is of all things knowing, be they hidden or revealed. Bearing this in mind, you need to strive hard in acts of worship all times, including good dealings with people. So anyone who is committed to observing Allah, he will most likely achieve Ihsan (perfection). The latter was defined by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, when he said, "it is to worship Allah the Almighty as if you can see Him, for although you cannot see Him, He can see you."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Observing Allah can be through awareness of His attributes and names, as He says, "And to Allah belong the best names, so invoke Him by them." (Al Araf: 180). Amongst His best names: Al Raqib, meaning the Observer, about Which He says, "And ever is Allah, over all things, an Observer." (Al Ahzab: 52). So whoever ponders on His name, all of his senses as well as acts become good (reformed), because he will come to know that anything he says or does is registered.
In this regard, Allah says, "Man does not utter any word except that with him is an observer prepared [to record]." (Qaf: 18). He also says, "And indeed, [appointed] over you are keepers, noble and recording; they know whatever you do." (Al Infitar: 10-12). Indeed Allah watches over His servants and He is aware of all what they do, as He says, "And, [O Muhammad], you are not [engaged] in any matter or recite any of the Quran and you [people] do not do any deed except that We are witness over you when you are involved in it." (Yunus: 61).
Those who turn thoughtless of their Creator's presence especially in privacy are prone to commit sins, hence shedding their record of good deeds. On the narration of Thawban, may Allah be pleased with him, that the Prophet pbuh said, "Verily, I know that some people of my nation will come on the Day of Judgment bearing good deeds as (huge as) the mountains of Tuhamah; however, Allah will make such deeds as scattered floating particles of dust."
Thawban said, "O Messenger of Allah, describe them, disclose them for us lest that we be amongst them while we do not know." The Prophet said, "They are your brothers (i.e., you cannot distinguish them from yourselves), they are from your people, and they worship Allah at night as you do. However, they are the people who transgress the sacred limits of Allah in secret."
Dear Muslims,
Those who are conscious of Allah shall have their status raised in this life and be granted salvation in the next. On this account, our Prophet pbuh said, "Seven (people) will be shaded by Allah by His Shade on the Day of Resurrection when there will be no shade except His Shade," of whom, he pbuh mentioned: "a man who is called by a charming lady of noble birth to commit illegal sexual intercourse with her, and he says, 'I am afraid of Allah..., and a man who remembers Allah in seclusion and his eyes are then flooded with tears."
Glad tidings to those who are constantly aware of Allah's presence and for this sake they strive in acts of worship and repent to Him for all the sins they have done. So engage fully in observing Allah whether in secret or in public and do good to your family.
Dear Fathers and Mothers,
Please be keen on your sons and daughters and do your best in upbringing them well. In no way should you fell short in fulfilling their rights, or be oblivious to them.
Dear Teachers and Educators,
Please be aware of Allah and do all what it needs to provide your students with good education, preparing them as it should be so that they can be beneficial to their communities and be loyal to their nation.
Dear employees,
Please be conscious of Allah while performing your duty and know that you are liable to it. So do your best in discharging the responsibilities entrusted to you.
With this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to make us amongst those who are devout to Him, fulfilling His orders and observing of Him. May Allah guide us to do all that is good, bestow upon us compassion and grant us Paradise.
May Allah help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His instructions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon,
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please fear Allah and be keen on observing Him whether in secret or in public, and know that in so doing, you will acquire a sincere disposition to distinguish between the permissible and the forbidden.
As well as alert, a person of such a nature acquires a pure heart and is keen to ask people of knowledge whenever he has doubt about something. So if the subject of his inquiry is not wrong and is compliant to Islam, he will go on and undertake it. If it is contradictory, he will refrain himself from it immediately.
In this regard, Abu Taalaba, may Allah be pleased with him, went to the Prophet pbuh and asked him, "O Apostle of Allah, teach me what is permissible and what is not?" The Prophet pbuh said, "Piety is that which contents the soul and comforts the heart, and sin is that which causes doubts and perturbs the heart, even if people pronounce it lawful and give you verdicts on such matters again and again."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without
mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













