addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Member of the Supreme Council, Ruler of Fujairah, received in his palace in Fujairah city HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, executive and branch directors.
HH Sheikh Hamad Al Sharqi expressed his satisfaction about the efforts made by Awqaf in promoting Islamic values in the community; serving mosques and bringing into focus their status and mission. On this occasion he stressed the importance of preserving authentic traditions, urging the youth to follow the UAE genuine customs and reject the alien ones that contradict the UAE moral system and that of their forefathers.
He said, "We have issued our directives to make of Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Fujairah a civilisational landmark in the area. There will be no towers or high buildings at its vicinity and the surrounding space shall remain empty to highlight the grand mosque of the Emirate."
On another level, he was briefed by Dr al Mazrouei on the efforts of Awqaf in Fujairah in maintaining and cleaning mosques, and developing Waqf resources to keep pace with the urban development that has been witnessed in the Emirate thanks to the continuous support of HH Sheikh Hamad Al Sharqi.
"We are today in Fujairah to meet Awqaf branch directors across the UAE to look into the affairs of mosques, Imams and Khateebs as well as the situation of endowments. This is a regular meeting we are holding in turn in various emirates and is an occasion for heads of branches to learn about the blessed progress Fujairah is witnessing. It is also an opportunity to meet Imams, Khateebs and members of staff in Fujairah branch," Dr al Mazrouei said.
He added: "We meet to discuss ways of implementing the instructions of our wise leadership that support progress and excellence with the aim of serving houses of Allah and consolidating principles of tolerance and moderation in the society."
In the end, Dr al Mazrouei offered HH Sheikh Hamad Al Sharqi the Awqaf Shield, thanking His Highness and his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the UAE, for their unlimited support to Awqaf's mission and programmes.
 













