addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, met Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins from the Emirate of Fujairah and Khorfakan branch. Held in al Bustan Hall in Fujairah, the meeting was part of the periodic meetings with Imams and Khateebs across the Emirates. Also present were HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Awqaf's executive and branch directors.
Dr al Mazrouei and Dr al Kaabi highlighted what Imams and Khateebs can do in order to further enhance their status in the mosque and community. They stressed especially the role of self-development by, for example, continually excelling in memorising and reciting the holy Quran as well as using the social media tools for intellectual and good guidance purposes.
Addressing the audience, Dr al Mazrouei said, "let us express our gratitude first to Allah the most Exalted and to our judicial leadership. We are thankful to Him also for the privilege of being [the entity] in charge of mosques and religious discourse. In so doing, we are drafting it in light of an Islamic culture characterised by elements of tradition and modernity. This is a move away from praising words to thanking actions as mentioned in Surat Luqman: 'Work, O family of David, in gratitude.' As such praising work underlies perfection and commitment to all that is virtuous."
He added: "we therefore encourage everyone [of you] to continue studying and get higher specialised degrees in Islamic studies, Arabic language and its literature because these are the tools of scholars, jurisprudents, Imams and Khateebs."
 For his part, Dr al Kaabi said, "First I pray to Allah the Almighty to sustain HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, with good health and wellness.
"I would also like to extend my sincere gratitude to HH Sheikh Hamad Mohammed Al Sharqi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Fujairah.  As we are meeting here today it is worthwhile stressing that this is a place, which is taking a great stride and racing time to embrace progress and comprehensive development. Dear Imams, thank you for being here today in this meeting that serves the mission of faith and mosques and is a good example of effective communication between the management and different layers of operations, which our wise leadership is keen to achieve.
"Today we are here so you listen to us and listen to you. Awqaf is keen on more than mere excellence or only be satisfied with what it has achieved so far. In fact we aim higher, as our religion, leadership and nation need us to continue the march of success. And please remind always that the Imam enjoys a special religious and social status and we would like you to further promote that role as well as that of the mosque. So it is part of your responsibility to fulfill what Allah the most Exalted has elected you for as mentioned by HE the chairman of Awqaf," Dr al Kaabi said.
Dr al al Kaabi further addressed Imams and Khateebs saying, "So you are invited to work hand in hand with HE the chairman in order to accomplish the highest standards of achievements and comply with quality [criteria]."
At the end of the meeting, Awqaf officials listened to suggestions and initiatives from Imams, who also extended their thanks to the UAE wise leaders for their efforts in laying firm foundations for stability, security and prosperity across the country, and pledged to promote religious values and the culture of tolerance and moderation.
 













