addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of Awqaf's strategic plan, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, presided over the third workshop of branch directors, which was held in Fujairah.
Dr al Kaabi opened the meeting by praying to Allah the Almighty to sustain HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Fujairah, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, with good health and wellness.
He then thanked Mr Ali Mohammed Al Suraidi, director of Awqaf branch in Fujairah, and his counterparts all over the UAE for their teamwork spirit and positive engagement.
The workshop looked into the work progress regarding the construction of 200 new mosques nationwide, and recommended contacting contractors to accelerate the completion time and remove any obstacles that may cause delay of delivery. Participants also discussed the situation of female prayer rooms and advised in this regard to cater for the highest standards of safety and hygiene.
Other recommendations included encouraging Emiratis with melodic voices to call for the Unified Adhan, transferring outstanding Khateebs and Imams to grand mosques in cities given their importance and providing equal level of services to all mosques in terms of maintenance, furniture and hygiene.
Branch directors seized this opportunity to extend their deepest appreciation to the UAE judicial leadership for its generous financial support to the Quranic centres. They also highlighted the leadership's special interest in these centres, which had considerably contributed to their development, including the upgrade of their curriculums, teaching staff and facilities. As a result, they have achieved highest standards of excellence and become model centres, adopting modern methods of teaching and learning.
The success of the Quranic centres should encourage philanthropists in the UAE to emulate the Wise leadership in its efforts in encouraging the youth to memorise the holy Quran, recite it, and improve their level of the Arabic language, they concluded.
 
 













