addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Islamic Affairs met accredited Haj and Umra operators at the Officers' Club in Abu Dhabi as part of its preparations for next Haj season. The annual meeting was presided over by Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, head of the Official Haj Delegation (OHD) and attended by his deputy Mr Obeid Hamad al Zaabi and Dr Ibrahim al Qadi, from the Ministry of Health.
At the outset of the meeting, Mr al Mazrouei praised the special support to the Haj delegation and pilgrims from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Mr al Mazrouei reiterated the Awqaf's keenness to implement the directives of the UAE wise leaders with the aim of providing every possible means of comfort to pilgrims and developing Haj and Umra affairs in line with its strategic plan.
During the meeting, participants discussed terms to develop Haj services and  ensure pilgrims' rights and maximum comfort.
The event was an initiative of Awqaf in which Mr al Mazrouei highlighted the great progress achieved by the OHD in recent years in various fields. This is especially reflected in the decreasing number of complaints by pilgrims and the increasing satisfaction expressed, he said.
To maintain these achievements, he called upon campaign owners to correct past irregularities and increase efforts to achieve the goals that satisfy the UAE leadership and help pilgrims perform their pilgrimage smoothly.
In a related note, Mr al Mazrouei informed operators of the guidelines for the next season as reported in his meeting with Saudi Haj officials. He said that Haj and Umra campaign contracts for housing, services and transportation in Mecca and Medina must be certified by the competent authorities in Saudi Arabia, while unlicensed companies must be avoided.
He also asked operators to provide appropriate places on campaign sites for prayers and religious lectures, respect Haj pilgrim quota and the number of tents for each campaign, and ensure accommodation for everyone.
For his part, Dr al Qadi explained the medical and health instructions concerning the forthcoming Haj season, asking in this regard to provide medical kits as specified by the Health Ministry and remind pilgrims to take the necessary injections available for free in the preventive medicine centres.
Later Mr al Zaabi urged operators to increase the skills of their employees, recruit Emiratis and select the best qualified staff. He reminded them that Awqaf would organise training workshops for this purpose.
On a different note, he asked them to rent enough buses in cases of emergencies.
 
 













