addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments' (GAIAE) application on mobile phones and tablets (AWQAF) received the 18th Middle East eGov and eServices Excellence Award this year in the category of mobile applications.
This came at the closing ceremony of the 19th GCC eGov and eServices Conference held in Dubai by Datamatix from May 18 to 22, 2013. According to organisers, the event attracted 30 speakers from the region and worldwide in addition to 500 leading figures, including e-government and electronic transformation project officials from both the public and private sectors.
This achievement adds to the Awqaf record of success and is in tune with the smart government initiative (post e-government) of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai.
HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director, received the award shield amid a host of officials and IT professionals from the Middles East in general and GCC in particular. He was then invited to give a speech on this occasion where he expressed his deepest gratitude to the continuous support of the UAE wise leadership to Awqaf's development programmes and keen interest in upgrading the services it offers to members of the public.
The award is a recognition of electronic integration efforts with various government entities, he said, adding that Awqaf has made its services available to everyone and the electronic transformation of services is part of its strategic plan with the aim of further enhancing its role, mission and vision within the community.
Speaking of the awards, Dr Ali al Kamali, director of the Middle East Excellence Awards Institute, said that they were subject to succinct scrutiny according to regional and international criteria. This is done in collaboration with independent world renowned centres of excellence, which support innovation and competitiveness of the economy regionally and globally.
AWQAF application developed by the GAIAE and launched in 2012 features integration of services and functionalities at the level of its main and submenus as well as a rich content. It is user-friendly and free from technical problems that may prevent users from fully benefitting from its services.
The application is available for free in two languages: Arabic and English, and is divided into nine sections as follows: The GAIAE, E-books, Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque (SZGM), Friday Khutbah, Fatawa, Masajid, Waqf, Hajj and Omrah, and Contact Us. Through the application users can contact the UAE Official Fatwa Centre and look for the nearest mosque. Its design structure allows future upgrade of services, content and features.
During the conference, Ms Mariam Rashid al Braiki, the GAIAE's IT director, presented the electronic transformation milestones at Awqaf, highlighting the operational systems and the public e-services that it had developed, such as improving Friday Khutba, E-Fatwa, interactive maps. All of the e-services are available in various mediums, including AWQAF800, the AWQAF application on smart phones and tablets, she said.
Ms al Braiki also mentioned that the GAIAE's e-services are user-friendly, flexible and effective. Such characteristics will enhance the user's experience and access to services, and promote interaction between the GAIAE and its environment, including individuals and institutions.
It is worthwhile mentioning that the GAIAE has made a great advance in its electronic transformation project and is completing the automation of the rest of the services by the year's end. The aim is to boost the UAE government electronic conversion programme, which has contributed to a significant increase in the number of visitors to the GAIAE's website to reach 2.5 mn. Awqaf application was downloaded by about 155,000 users since its launch last year.
 
 













