addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds. We extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. To Allah belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
There is a pressing need for all creatures to have stability. Crucial as it is, Ibrahim pbuh, for example, prayed to his Lord to grant it to his folk when he was quoted as saying, "and [mention] when Abraham said, 'My Lord, make this a secure city and provide its people with fruits - whoever of them believes in Allah and the Last Day'."(Al Baqara: 126)
Stressing its value, Allah the Exalted mentioned that it was a reward from Him to some nations as was the case with Sabaa people. He the Almighty says,"There was for [the tribe of] Sabaa in their dwelling place a sign: two [fields of] gardens on the right and on the left. [They were told], "Eat from the provisions of your Lord and be grateful to Him. A good land [have you], and a forgiving Lord." (Sabaa: 15).
Allah the Exalted also blessed Quraysh with wealth, comfort and security as He says, "Who has fed them, [saving them] from hunger and made them safe, [saving them] from fear." (Quraysh: 4).
Dear Servants of Allah,
One key to stability is to believe in Allah and avoid His prohibitions for He says, "They who believe and do not mix their belief with injustice - those will have security, and they are [rightly] guided." (Al Anaam: 82). In this verse Allah the Almighty promises those who have achieved Iman (faith) and avoided disobedience to bestow upon them safety and security.
Thus the true believers are depicted as those who appreciate what Allah has granted them of benefits, namely security; they thank Him if He gives them, and think about the conditions of those living in fear and poverty. In this regard, Allah the Almighty says, "And remember when you were few and oppressed in the land, fearing that people might abduct you, but He sheltered you, supported you with His victory, and provided you with good things - that you might be grateful." (Al Anfal: 26).
This is a reminder to us that we need to remember Allah as a token of gratitude to Him for granting us security, and let others do the same. We also need to thank anyone else who played a part in achieving it, as our Prophet pbuh said, "if anyone does you a kindness, recompense him; but if you have not the means to do so, pray for him until you feel that you have compensated him."
In this context, we have to thank Allah and our leaders who have devoted themselves to obeying their Lord, building the land, and offering the means for good living to their people. They also make sure everyone is safely in his home. Our thanks should also go to any institution, official or individual with a contribution to this.
The least we can say to them is "thank you and may Allah reward you as much as you did of good to us," reminding them of the glad tidings awaiting them as is mentioned in this Hadith: "there are two eyes that shall not be touched by the Fire: an eye that wept from the fear of Allah, and an eye that spent the night standing on guard in the cause of Allah."
One of the means to promote stability is by spreading harmony amongst people. On this account our Prophet pbuh said, "A believer to another believer is like a building whose different parts enforce each other." The Prophet then clasped his hands with the fingers interlaced (while saying that).
So beware of disagreement, for it is an evil that leads to division and loss. Beware also of partisanship because it is an agent of destruction that leads communities to fall apart. Allah the Almighty says in this regard, "and obey Allah and His Messenger, and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage and [then] your strength would depart; and be patient. Indeed, Allah is with the patient." Al Anfal: 46).
O Servants of Allah, please know that the love of one's homeland is crucial to the stability of any society. Thus if a man loves his country, he will definitely feel the responsibility towards preserving its security and stability. This was why our Prophet asked his Lord to grant him the love of Medina so he could achieve stability and tranquility. He pbuh said, "O Allah, make us love Medina as much as we love Mecca or even more."  After all, someone who feels secure in his homeland is likely to be more confident and self-motivated to excel in work and be more productive.
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to guide us to the right path, make us amongst those who are grateful to His bounties and be obliged to anyone doing good to us. May Allah also make us amongst those who preserve the precious blessing of their nation's stability, security and progress.
O Allah, also help us obey You, Your Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those You have ordained upon us to obey pursuant to Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon,
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public, and be aware that a good citizen is someone who seeks building and protecting his nation and is keen to serve it for the good of its stability and development. He also shuns away from pretenders who rather seek to cause damage to it.
So let us then look forward to seeing our country's flag always high, its edifice always solid, impenetrable, safe and secure. Let us also think of what we have offered to our country and have in mind that everyone must shoulder the responsibility of ensuring its security and stability.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 













