addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















Awqaf celebrated the anniversary of Israa and Miraj at the Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi by recalling the lessons from this great prophetic miracle.
On this occasion, Awqaf extended its sincere congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
It also offered its greetings to the UAE people, the Arab and Islamic nation and the whole world, praying to the Almighty Allah that this occasion will come in future with further progress and prosperity.
The ceremony was attended by Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director for Islamic affairs, officials from Awqaf and a host of scholars and Imams. Speakers highlighted the noble meanings of the blessed journey where many human values and obedience to Allah had been consolidated, and called on the audience to consider its deep meanings.
Sheikh Taleb al Shehhi, director of preaching department at Awqaf, spoke of how the Prophet Muhammad pbuh was a blessing from Allah the Exalted to this universe, leading guidance and laying the foundation of enlightenment, knowledge, justice, harmony, security and safety.
Mr al Shehhi explained that the nightly journey from Al Masjid Al Haram in Mecca to Al Masjid Al Aqsa in Bayt Al Maqdis and then to heavens was an honour for the Prophet pbuh. On another note, it came to emphasise the moderate character of Islam, which advocates tolerance and dialogue, he said.
Other scholars from Awqaf brought into light other aspects of Isra and Miraj, saying it was one of the miracles most commemorated in the holy Quran. For this reason, they said it was a cultural heritage that would never fade from people's memory because of its deep impact.
Through the sacred journey, the Prophet pbuh was acquainted with events from the past, present and future. He then informed his Umma of former people's experiences and showed them their future as he saw it, lest they should deviate.  
At the end of the ceremony, the audience supplicated to Allah to have mercy on the founding father, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
They also prayed to Allah to sustain HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, The Rulers of the Emirates and Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, with good health and continue blessing the UAE and the Muslim countries with safety and security.
Awqaf issued a leaflet on Isra and Miraj for distribution to the audience and mosques across the country. It also chose this occasion as one of the themes for the Friday sermon and mosque lectures.
 













