addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He accepts repentance from His servants and forgives sins. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (Attawba: 119).
Dear Believers,
We are still enjoying the fragrance from the month of Shaaban. During its days and nights hearts get lightened and prayers to Allah increased. They are the cause of raising one's deeds to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and a prelude to the holy month of Ramadan. So whoever acts well during these days will reap the best fruits of his work in the following month.
This is why our Prophet pbuh would give greater interest to these days by fasting and increasing his late night prayers. Asked by Osama Ibn Zayd, may Allah be pleased with him, about the reasons for this, our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "that is a month to which people do not pay much attention, between Rajab and Ramadan. It is a month in which the deeds are taken up to the Lord of the worlds, and I like that my deeds be taken up when I am fasting."
Mid Shaaban night (also known as the night of records) is when Allah offers to bestow His mercy on those who supplicate to Him, forgive those who seek His forgiveness and wipe out the sins of those have repented. Yet He excludes people who keep sinning, and whose hearts are filled with rancour.
The Prophet pbuh said, "Allah looks down on the night of the middle of Shaaban and forgives all His creation, apart from the idolater and the Mushahin." So strive in this night to please people you have argument with to avoid them being recorded against you by the Angels in the Hereafter.
Dear Servants of Allah,
You can seize this month by showing remorse and turning to Allah the Exalted in repentance as He says, "And turn to Allah in repentance, all of you, O believers, that you might succeed." (Annur: 31). Repentance is obligatory for Muslims time and again. Yet in special seasons of goodness and mercy, it is more desirable. Allah the Almighty has promised the repentant amongst his believers to forgive their sins, save them from darkness, guide them to light, and ultimately grant them Paradise.
On this matter, He the Exalted says, "O you who have believed, repent to Allah with sincere repentance. Perhaps your Lord will remove from you your misdeeds and admit you into gardens beneath which rivers flow [on] the Day when Allah will not disgrace the Prophet and those who believed with him. Their light will proceed before them and on their right; they will say, "Our Lord, perfect for us our light and forgive us. Indeed, You are over all things competent." (Attahrim: 8).
Encouraging sinners to repent, Allah the most Compassionate reveals His love for those who have repented saying, "Allah loves those who are constantly repentant and loves those who purify themselves." (Al Baqara: 222).
Aspects of this Divine love is that Allah forgives the disobedient and sinner. So if the latter feels sorry and repents for his sins, doors will open for him and His Creator will welcome him. Our Prophet pbuh said, "by Allah, Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His servant than what one of you would do on finding the lost camel in the waterless desert." Allah the most Forgiving will also accept the repentance of His servants and defend them. Therefore, no one should despair, but rather keep hope high that his repentance will be honoured.
On this account, Jundub, may Allah be pleased with him, reported that Allah's Messenger pbuh stated that a person said, "Allah would not forgive such and such (person)." Thereupon Allah the Exalted and Glorious, said "who is he who adjures about Me that I would not grant pardon to so and so; I have granted pardon to so and so and blotted out his deeds (who took an oath that I would not grant pardon to him)."
Dear Muslims,
The true repentance is when to turn to Allah the Exalted by keeping away from sins and regretting doing them. This requires a strong resolve to not repeat them, give rights back to their owners and maintain good deeds. Allah the Almighty says, "But indeed, I am the Perpetual Forgiver of whoever repents and believes and does righteousness and then continues in guidance." (Taha: 82).
Anyone, who has fallen in sin, needs therefore to seek forgiveness from Allah the most Compassionate and repent to Him, as He says, "And whoever does a wrong or wrongs himself but then seeks forgiveness of Allah will find Allah Forgiving and Merciful." (Annisaa: 110). They need also to invoke Allah by praying to Him for pardon. Indeed His forgiveness is far and wider than our sins and His mercy is more rewarding than our deeds.
On the authority of Anas (may Allah be pleased with him) who said, "I heard the Messenger of Allah pbuh saying, "Allah the Almighty has said, 'O Son of Adam, as long as you invoke Me and ask of Me, I shall forgive you for what you have done, and I shall not mind. O Son of Adam, were your sins to reach the clouds of the sky and you then asked forgiveness from Me, I would forgive you. O Son of Adam, were you to come to Me with sins nearly as great as the Earth, and were you then to face Me, ascribing no partner to Me, I would bring you forgiveness nearly as great as it [too]'. "
O servants of Allah, please remember anyone who passed away from your kinship or people who did good to you. Please pray for them and invoke Allah the Almighty to forgive them all. Your prayers shall benefit them on the Day of Resurrection and they shall rejoice them. The Prophet pbuh said, "A man will be raised in status in Paradise and will say, 'Where did this come from?' And it will be said, 'From your son's praying for forgiveness for you'."
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to forgive our wrongdoings and mistakes, accept our repentance and forgive us. We also seek Allah's grace to forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead.
O Allah, also help us obey You, Your Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those You have ordained upon us to obey pursuant to Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public, and know that he who constantly asks for forgiveness Allah will grant him tranquility and happiness to cherish life until death. He the Exalted says, "and seek forgiveness of your Lord and repent to Him, [and] He will let you enjoy a good provision for a specified term and give every doer of favor his favor." (Hud: 3).
As we are approaching the holy month of Ramadan, a season of acts of obedience when wrongdoings are forgiven, status raised and blessings increased, the winners shall be those who seize this opportunity to repent to their Lord, engage themselves in Dhikr and look forward to His pardon. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "glad tidings to those who find a lot of seeking forgiveness in the record of their deeds."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 
 
 













