addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf signed a contract with Al Mihrajan Contracting and General Maintenance Company (MCGMC) to build a new multi-floor building for its branch in Al Ain.
The signing ceremony was held in Awqaf's headquarters in Abu Dhabi. The contract was signed  by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, and Mr Naser Mohammed al Hajjar, MCGMC's managing director. Also present were Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director of Islamic Affairs, Mr Khaled Mohammed al Neyadi, the executive director for Waqf affairs, and Abdul Aziz al Ghaithi, Awqaf's branch director.
The move is part of Awqaf's efforts to keep pace with the urban development witnessed across state facilities and make its premises an example of fine architecture that takes into consideration heritage, environment and modernity.
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi said that the contract was a result of the continuing support from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and the stewardship of HH Sheikh Tahnoon bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, the Ruler's Representative in the Eastern Region.
He added that Awqaf was seeking to implement the wise leadership's vision and provide for an environment conducive to innovation with a view to achieving architectural and civilisational excellence witnessed all over the UAE.
According to the contract, the project will be completed within 14 months as of the starting date of work and as per the specifications approved by Awqaf. The building will be delivered in 2014.
The building is of three levels: a ground floor for attending to customers and visitors, the first floor, an open office space, and the second one for offices and meeting rooms.
More than 35 consulting firms bided for its design and 18 firms for its construction works.
 













