addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He extends provision for whom He wills of His servants and restricts for him. I extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also witness that Muhammad pbuh is His servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.   
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "so fear Allah as much as you are able and listen and obey and spend [in the way of Allah]; it is better for your selves." (Attaghabun: 16). He the Almighty also says,"so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Believers,
As we approach the blessed Ramadan, let us recall the virtues of this month during which good deeds increase, letting people engage further in acts of worship and charity. It is also a month of mercy and good time for Muslims to spend and give out alms, most importantly Zakat, about which Allah the most Compassionate says, "and those within whose wealth is a known right for the petitioner and the deprived." (al Maarij: 24-25).
Zakat is a type of alms an able Muslim must pay based on an amount of wealth accumulated around a full lunar year. Because of its importance the Almighty Allah has associated it with prayers in many places in the holy Quran. Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "three verses were revealed as mutually dependent and none of them can stand alone.
"The first verse "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger," clearly states that if someone who obeys Allah but fails to obey the Prophet, his submission shall not be accepted. The second verse "and establish prayer and give zakah," shows that prayers and Zakat are associated in a way that acceptance of the former depends on fulfilling the latter. The third verse "Be grateful to Me and to your parents," affirms that thanking Allah is incomplete and cannot be accepted without thanking one's parents.
In view of its high merits, observance of Zakat is looked at as a quality that distinguishes  people of the faith as Allah the Exalted says, "these are the verses of the Qur'an and a clear Book as guidance  and good tidings for the believers who establish prayer and give zakah, and of the Hereafter they are certain [in faith]." (Annaml: 1-3).
Zakat is also seen as a salvation from Hellfire for Allah the Almighty says, "So I have warned you of a Fire which is blazing. None will [enter to] burn therein except the most wretched one who had denied and turned away. But the righteous one will avoid it - [He] who gives [from] his wealth to purify himself." (Allayl: 14-18). Thus, it is a way to obtain mercy and forgiveness. On this account Allah the Exalted says, "but My mercy encompasses all things." So I will decree it [especially] for those who fear Me and give zakah and those who believe in Our verses." (Al Aaraf: 156).
Allah the Almighty has also promised those who pay Zakat double rewards. He says, "and whatever you give for interest to increase within the wealth of people will not increase with Allah. But what you give in zakah, desiring the countenance of Allah - those are the multipliers." (Arrum: 39). So whoever gives out Zakat in fact purifies his self and money, as our Prophet pbuh said, "Allah has made Zakat obligatory simply to purify your remaining property."
Dear Servants of Allah,
This goes down to its literal meaning: to purify and make something grow and develop. Allah the Almighty says, "take, [O, Muhammad], from their wealth a charity by which you purify them and cause them increase, and invoke [Allah 's blessings] upon them. Indeed, your invocations are reassurance for them. And Allah is Hearing and Knowing." (Attawba: 103).
Zakat is therefore meant to purify the heart of the wealthy from stinginess and the heart of the poor from envy and hatred. Moreover its payment fulfills one's duty towards the needy by giving them their rights from his wealth. In this sense, it is a purifying ritual that safeguards one's money and property from loss by giving out the assigned amount due to the poor amongst the community.
It equally comforts the poor and brings him self-esteem. This way he will feel more valued within society, and see his morals amended. Thus, with some cash in hand, he can engage in trade and develop his own wealth. Allah the Exalted says, "but whatever thing you spend [in His cause] - He will compensate it; and He is the best of providers." (Sabaa: 39).
Dear Believers,
Please know that Zakat has its own ethics. First, its giver must primarily seek pleasing Allah and avoid downgrading this obligation by reminding others of one's favours for them. Allah says, "O you who have believed, do not invalidate your charities with reminders or injury." (Al Baqara: 264). Second, Zakat money must only be from permissible sources for Allah the Exalted is Good and accepts only that which is good. He the Almighty said, "O you who have believed, spend from the good things which you have earned and from that which We have produced for you from the earth. And do not aim toward the defective therefrom, spending [from that]." (Al Baqara: 267).
Last but not least, it should preferably go first to relatives and other ties of kinship. In so doing the giver will be doubly rewarded. Our Prophet pbuh said, "Charity towards a poor person is charity, and towards a relation is both charity and maintaining the ties (of kinship)."
Having this in mind, we seek Allah's grace to guide us to do good deeds and grant us Paradise. We also seek His favour to help us obey Him, His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and those He has ordained upon us to obey pursuant to His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you."(Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public, and be aware that a Muslim is responsible for paying Zakat on time. Being late in doing this is a transgression of the poor's rights, something which our Prophet pbuh warned against when he sent Muaad bin Jabal, may Allah be pleased with him, to Yemen. He pbuh addressed him (Muaad) saying, "teach them that Allah has made it obligatory for them to pay the Zakat from their property and it is to be taken from the wealthy among them and given to the poor."
So please hurry to give Zakat to those eligible for it and whenever is due. Allah the Almighty says, "Zakah expenditures are only for the poor and for the needy and for those employed to collect [zakah] and for bringing hearts together [for Islam] and for freeing captives [or slaves] and for those in debt and for the cause of Allah and for the [stranded] traveler - an obligation [imposed] by Allah. And Allah is Knowing and Wise." (Attawba: 60).
In this context, our wise leadership has set up the Zakat Fund with the mission of raising Zakat money and disbursing it to the eligible segments of society fairly and in accordance to religious rules. With this spirit, let us then engage in efforts to help it achieve its role, promote social solidarity, and strengthen bonds of love and affection amongst members of the community.
However, should you have any questions regarding Zakat, you are invited to contact the Fatwa reference authority within specialised competent entities, including the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













