addthis_pub="newawqaf";















On the occasion of the holy month of Ramadan, Awqaf has issued four publications, most importantly The Mosque Lectures. The lectures are intended for Imams in mosques all over the UAE, including those of the UAE Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior. The book was written in simple style with proofs from the holy Quran and Sunna as well as citations from Scholars when need be. Advice and lessons are highlighted.
On this occasion, Awqaf extended its greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, the Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Because the book is about fasting, it contains 30 headings on Ramadan. The first lecture is titled receiving the holy month of Ramadan. The second lecture is Ramadan, the month of Quran. The third and the fourth lessons highlight acts that do not harm fasting and ways of spending in Ramadan.
The book covers general subjects related to fasting and Ramadan day by day until it reaches the 19th day, which marks the anniversary of the demise of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the founding father of the UAE, may Allah rest his soul in peace. This occasion is dubbed as the UAE humanitarian work day, on which the Cabinet has called the UAE people to take humanitarian initiatives in memory of the late leader, who has earned the recognition not only of Emiratis and UAE residents, but of all Arabs, Muslims and the whole humanity.
The last part of lessons discussed Zakat al Fitr, the merits of helping people and the Eid, while the last lecture, 30th, calls on people to maintain acts of obedience after Ramadan.
The Mosque Lectures of Ramadan comes in elegant print, and has been distributed to Imams in more than 5,000 mosques. Through this initiative, Awqaf seeks to promote the mosque mission being a place for guidance and intellect. Lectures will be given daily and shall not exceed seven minutes each.
Awqaf published also a set of three booklets: Fasting is protection, Rules of Fasting, Fatwas on Fasting. They are available for free in mosques and designed to guide the general public to the main principles of fasting.
 













