addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also witness that Muhammad is His servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. 
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281). He the Almighty also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Allah's blessings are unfolding, bringing to His servants mercy and generous occasions. He the Sublime has urged us to seize these opportunities by engaging in good deeds that lead us to Paradise as He says, "race toward forgiveness from your Lord and a Garden whose width is like the width of the heavens and earth." (Al Hadid: 21).
The holy month of Ramadan is one of the greatest occasions of goodness, a month that Allah has favoured over others and when He ordered fasting. He the Almighty says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al Baqara: 183).
As it nears, we are welcoming its advent and looking forward to harvesting its benefits, increasing prayers and receiving as much reward as possible. The Messenger of Allah said, "Allah says, 'every deed of the son of Adam is for him, except fasting; it is for me and I shall reward for it. Fasting is a shield. If any one of you is fasting, let him no utter obscene talk or raise his voice in anger, and if anyone insults him or wants to fight, let him say: I am fasting. By the One in whose hand is the soul of Muhammad, the smell coming from the mouth of the fasting person is better before Allah than the fragrance of musk. The fasting person has two moments of joy: when he breaks his fast he rejoices at breaking his fast and when he meets his Lord, the Mighty and Sublime, he will rejoice at having fasted'."
How can we not rejoice fasting while Allah the most Compassionate has made for us a gate to Paradise, exclusively reserved for those who observe fast for the sake of Allah and stay away from all that may invalidate it?
Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "There is a gate in Paradise called Arraiyan, and those who observe fasts will enter through it on the Day of Resurrection and none except them will enter through it. It will be said, 'where are those who used to observe fasts?' They will get up, and none except them will enter through it. After their entry the gate will be closed and nobody will enter through it."
You are urged therefore to welcome the holy month of Ramadan by engaging in goodness and getting closer to Allah through acts of obedience. So anyone who is sincere in his fasting, Allah will forgive his previous sins, for our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever fasted the month of Ramadan out of sincere Faith (i.e. belief) and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his past sins will be forgiven."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh used to urge his Companions to benefit from Ramadan by doing good deeds. He would say, "there has come to you Ramadan, a blessed month, which Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, has enjoined you to fast. In it the gates of heavens are opened and the gates of Hell are closed, and every devil is chained up. In it Allah has a night which is better than a thousand months; whoever is deprived of its goodness is indeed deprived."
Then let us be ready to welcome Ramadan as is befitting to its high merits for it is a month of forgiveness and proximity to Allah the Exalted, as mentioned in the following Hadith. Abu Hurayra narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh climbed the minbar (pulpit) and said: "Ameen [O Allah grant it], Ameen, Ameen". So it was said, "O Messenger of Allah, you climbed upon the minbar and said, 'Ameen, Ameen, Ameen?' So he said, "Jibreel came to me and said, 'whoever reaches the month of Ramadan and does not have [his sins] forgiven and so enters Fire, then may Allah distance him, say Ameen." So I said, "Ameen..." 
Dear Muslims,
One way to receive the holy month of Ramadan is by having a strong resolve to return to Allah and repent to Him. Thus one is required to assess himself, correct his mistakes and be willing to forgive others. He needs also to avoid excessiveness in food, and should busy himself instead with learning more about the virtues of fasting, studying the holy Quran, and seeking its benefits, not to forget spending on his family and meet their needs.
With this in mind we seek Allah's favour to bless for us the remaining days of Shaaban, prolong our life to witness Ramadan, help us observe fast and late night prayers, and recite Quran. May Allah let us be among His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public, and be aware that as much as Ramadan is a month of worship, it is also a time for giving. Ibn Abbas narrated that the Prophet pbuh was the most generous of all the people, and he used to become more generous in Ramadan when Jibreel met him. Jibreel used to meet him every night during Ramadan to revise the Quran with him. Allah's Apostle pbuh then used to be more generous than the fast wind.
One form of spending is Waqf (endowment), a charity of enduring value. Its reward shall continue to benefit the person during his lifetime and after his death. On this account, our Prophet pbuh said, "The rewards of the good deeds that will reach a believer after his death are knowledge which he taught and spread, a righteous son whom he leaves behind, a copy of the Quran that he leaves as a legacy, a mosque that he built, a house that he built for wayfarers, a canal that he dug, or charity that he gave during his lifetime when he was in good health. These deeds will reach him after his death."
This is again a call for everyone to purify his wealth and self through Zakat and other forms of charity and place some of it as Waqf in order to be an asset for him in this life and the next.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













