addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has stated that moderate principles are the basis of its approach and disapproved of thoughts that are extreme or against tolerance.  It has said that it will firmly deal with any divergence from this track.
Dr al Kaabi also stressed that Awqaf works on enhancing religious awareness by promoting Islamic culture and principles of moderation and tolerance, highlighting the civilisational image of mosques and developing the skills of their personnel. He also explained that Awqaf is seeking excellence and dedicated to developing official Fatwa issuance as well as endowment resources, Haj and Umra.
He added that Awqaf undertakes also the task of organising conferences and seminars, celebrating religious occasions and ceremonies and supervising the print and publication of the holy Quran as well as the Quranic centres and institutes.
This came during a press briefing held at Awqaf headquarters where HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, highlighted also the Islamic principles of moderation and tolerance as standards which are taken into consideration in appointing Imams and Khateebs.
He explained that Awqaf had devised a plan to encourage more Emiratis to take up these positions. But since few are willing to do so, it addresses this situation by offering more favourable incentives, he said.
On a another note, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that permits for delivering lectures at mosques were suspended, except for scholars and Khateebs from Awqaf.
He also announced that Awqaf would build branch offices in every Emirate; a construction contract for establishing its new branch in Al Ain had recently been signed. Awqaf will also continue building Waqf properties, commercial and residential centres with a view to developing endowments resources.
"Awqaf is currently developing the Sheikh Zayed Waqf project in Khalidiya in Abu Dhabi at the expense of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him. It consists of five basement levels as parking spaces, a ground floor for shops, a mezzanine for offices and 29 floors with 532 apartments in total. It is expected to generate more than AED 50 mn annually," he said.
 He added: "Awqaf is managing endowment projects valuing approximately AED 1,2 billion, and Sheikh Zayed Waqf alone accounts for about AED 343 mn. Awqaf has developed an electronic system for managing Waqf assets."
He then briefed the audience of Waqf assets, saying there are 658 of them in the UAE broken down as follows: Abu Dhabi, 172, worth AED 793,5 mn, representing 66 per cent of all endowments in the UAE, Al Ain, 264, valuing about AED 231,2 mn, being 20 per cent of the total Waqf assets, Sharjah, 6, valuing AED 41,6 mn, Ajman, 5, Umm Al Quwain, 33, worth AED 11 mn, while Ras Al Khaimah,134, valuing more than AED 46 mn.
As for Haj and Umra services, Dr al Kaabi said that there are 145 operators across the country; most of them are based in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, 64 in Abu Dhabi and Al Ain alone. He also gave an overview of the services offered to pilgrims here and in the holy sites, the efforts made to ensure safety, health services and food security as well as the continuous coordination with the Saudi authorities in many other issues.
Memorisation of the holy Quran
The Quranic centres have been able to attract more students, from 20,000 in 2011 to 30,180 last year, and there is a plan to attract even more students by offering incentives. Currently there are 64 centres and institutes which host memorisation sessions, including mosques with some 470 memorisation cycles all over the UAE. All centres, institutes and cycles are staffed with highly skilled teachers.
Plans and programmes
Awqaf is planning the construction of new mosques in line with the overall urban development in new residential areas and labour housing compounds. Fitting mosques with screens will continue as needed and more model Quranic centres will be built. Awqaf will also recruit more scholars for the Official Fatwa Centres and continue to encourage Emiratis to fill in posts of Muftis, preachers, Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins.
According to the Assessment of the federal government management system, Awqaf achieved 99 per cent of its strategic and operational plan in 2011, a higher percentage if compared with an average of 94 per cent at the level of other federal authorities and entities.
Awqaf website has received awards of distinction locally and regionally in 2010 and 2011.
Awqaf signed memorandums of understanding and agreements with other entities inside and outside UAE, including a strategic partnership with the Ministry of Presidential Affairs relative to management and supervision of the UAE President's guest pro gramme for Ramadan.
Fatwa
According to Dr al Kaabi, Fatwa issuance reference authority has been unified through the UAE Official Fatwa Centre. The latter receives an average of 1300 calls daily, but during Ramadan and Haj season this number jumps to 7000. Statistics reveal also  that the Centre has so far answered about 1,283,00 Fatwas via the phone, 131,316,00 Fatwas via SMS and 27,235,00 Fatwas by email. Fatwas are delivered in three languages: Arabic, Urdu and English, he said.
Friday Khutba
Dr al Kaabi explained that Friday sermons were prepared by a committee of scholars with strong knowledge of the subject matter. They choose subjects and write the content. Khutba is delivered in Arabic, but there are 45 authorised mosques where it is presented in Urdu and 13 others in English. Overall, there are 2062 mosques where Jumaa prayers are performed across the UAE.
He further explained that Imams are classified into three categories: those who select topics of their own and improvise sermons without referring to a text; those who adapt a sermon provided by Awqaf; and finally Imams who read out a sermon written and prepared by Awqaf weekly. Yet all of them have to respect the timeframe specified by Awqaf.
 













