addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Under the patronage of HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Presidential Affairs, 33 scholars, arrived in the UAE to take part in the Programme of Scholars, Guests of HH, Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, in Ramadan. Awqaf is being the organising entity.
Among the outstanding figures this year are Dr Ali Jumaa, the former Mufti of Egypt, Dr Abdallah Bin Bayyah, Vice-President of the International Union of Muslim Scholars, Dr Mohammed Nooh Ali Maabda al Qadaa, Minister of Awqaf and Islamic affairs in Jordan, Dr Mahmoud Ashour, the Vice President of Al Azhar and Member of the Islamic Research Academy, Prof Dr Qays Mohammed Abdullatif Al Sheikh, Member of the Council of Senior Scholars and a host of Muslim scholars. They will take part in 984 events.   
A press conference held by Awqaf at Ritz Carlton Hotel in Abu Dhabi where the daily programme for lectures was made public. HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, and HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general spoke in the press briefing. On the occasion, Dr al Mazrouei extended his greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President of the UAE, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, and their brothers Their Highness Members of the supreme Council, Rulers of the UAE. He also offered his congratulations to HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and to all Crown Princes and Sheikhs, praying to the Almighty Allah to bring this occasion to all with further progress, happiness, good health and safety.
 Dr al Mazrouei highlighted the special interest of HH Sheikh Khalifa in hosting elite scholars, who contribute to the promotion of Islamic teachings amongst various groups of the community, young and old, Emiratis and residents. He explained that this intiative is under the patronage of HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Presidential Affairs, Chairman of the Ministerial Council for services.
The UAE receives every month of Ramadan distinguished scholars to deliver lectures in mosques, various community institutions and Majlises, as well as to take part in religious and social programmes on local television and radio channels, he said, adding that the aim is to promote religious awareness and increase the spiritual feelings.  
For his part, Dr al Kaabi briefed the audience of the Programme, saying that the participating scholars and preachers are known for advocating moderate principles and enjoying popularity and respect of the public. They will take part in as far as 984 events, including 314 lectures held in community and official instititions, such as the Armed Forces, Ministry of Interior, the Family Development Foundation, he said. He added that they would also give 670 lectures in mosques all over the UAE with the aim of spreading the culture of tolerance and compassion, and promoting the values of love and loyalty to one's nation and community cohesion.
He said, "the events will also include special Ramadan evenings that feature lectures, competitions with incentive awards and poetry readings. A daily lecture will be given following Taraweeh prayers at Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi in addition to "Wa Dhakkir" (And do remind), a progarmme broadcast on Abu Dhabi TV Emirates... This TV show will be aired from 5 to 6 pm from Sheikh Zayed Mosque. Guest scholars will also talk in "Sabah Annoor" (good morning) on the Holy Quran Radio, Abu Dhabi, from 8 to 9am."
Dr al Kaabi further explained that Taraweeh prayers would be broadcast live daily from Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi followed by a lecture and the radio show "Makarim al Akhlaq" (good Morals). The programme is aired every Saturday from 12 to 1 pm on the Holy Quran Radio, Abu Dhabi.
Dr al Mazrouei and Dr al Kaabi thanked media organisations and journalists for their interest in relaying details of the Programme of Scholars, Guests of HH the President, to members of the public.
It is worth mentioning that Awqaf has provided the guests with a package of information about their programme, a welcoming note, a documentary film on the Programme since the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may rest his soul in peace, information on the UAE, history, geography, population and its progress milestones, in addition to an overview about the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, Awqaf, titles of lectures and scholars' biographies. 
Lectures' themes this year include: merits of fasting, worships and Quran recitation in Ramadan, the importance of endowments in community development, Ramadan and spending, love for the nation and loyalty to leaders being considered part of obedience to Allah, supplications in Ramadan, compassion and tolerance, educating children in Ramadan, Ramadan and wise consumption, borrowing, characteristics of the fasting person, guarding the limbs from wrongdoing and sins, moderation, construction and maintaining mosques, Ramadan and paradise, nation building, the UAE humanitarian Work Day and virtues of the last ten days of Ramadan.
Dr al Mazrouei said that the subject for this year's lectures had been selected in coordination with many concerned entities and organisations and special attention was given to social, family relations and parent-child relationship.
List of scholars, guests of HH the President of the UAE:

 Dr Abdullah bin Bayyah, vice president of the International Union of Muslim Scholars, Mauritania. 
 Prof Dr Ali Gomaa Mohamed Abdelwahab, former Mufti of Arab Republic of Egypt. 
 Dr Mohamed Nouh Ali Maabdeh Rehab, Minister of Islamic Affairs, Jordan.
 Prof. Dr Qays Mohamed Abdullatif al Sheikh, member of the Council of Senior Scholars, Saudi Arabia. 
 Mr Mohamed Nouh Ali Mballa, Chairman of the Fatwa and Grievances' Council, Mauritania. 
 Mr Hamza Yusuf Hanson, a preacher, US. 
 Mr Abdul Rahman Saqafi, Secretary General of Sunni Youth society, India.
 Mr Omar Hussein Omar Al Khateeb, a teacher, preacher and Mufti of Yemen.
 Dr Ahmed Abbadi, Secretray General Secretary of Mohammadia Association of Moroccan Scholars, Morocco.
 Dr Abed el Fattah al Samman, accredited coach, preacher, author and programme presenter, Syria.
 Dr Naji Rashed Hasan Ali al Arabi, Assistant Professor at Bahrain University and Khateeb of Ajlan Mosque, Arad, Bahrain.
 Prof Dr Mohamed Rateb Abdallah al Nabelsi, Professor of Scientific Miracles in Quran and Sunna in the Faculty of Sharia and Fundamentals of Religion in Damascus. 
 Dr Osama El Sayed Mahmooud Mohamed Saad, Assistant Lecturer in the Faculty of Fundamentals of Religion, University of Zagazig, Egypt. 
 Mr Farouk Gebrel Mahmoud, Assistant Professor at Al Azhar University, Egypt. 
 Mr Mansour el Refaei Mahmoud Abaid, former Undersecretary of Awqaf Ministry, Egypt. 
 Dr Abdellah Macer, Professor in the Faculty of Humanities, University of Sidi Mohamed ben Abdellah, Morocco.
 Dr Mohamed Charhbili, University Professor, Morocco. 
 Dr Abdel Karim Akioui, Professor in the Faculty of Humanities, Ibnou Zohr University, Agadir, Morocco. 
 Prof Dr Mokhtar Marzouk Abdel Rehim Marzouk, Professor at Al Azhar University, Egypt.
 Prof Dr Nazih Abdel Maksoud Mohamed Mabrouk, Professor at Al Azhar University, Egypt.
 Prof Dr Hussin Mohamed Mahmoud Abdel Moutaleb, Dean of the Faculty of Islamic Studies, Al Azhar, in Qana, Egypt.
 Prof Dr Saad Khalaf Abdel Wahhab Abdallah, Dean of the Faculty of Islamic Studies, Al Azhar, in Suhaj, Egypt.
 Prof Dr Abdel Basit Said Mostafa Ataya, Dean of the Arabic Language Faculty, in Shibin Al Koum, Al Azhar, Egypt.
 Prof Dr Abbas Abdalla Abbas Soliman, Head of Islamic Law Department, and Secretary General of Senior Scholars at Al Azhar, Egypt.
 Prof Dr Ramadan Abdel Aziz Ahmed Attalla, Head of Interpreting Department in the Faculty of Fundamentals of Religion, Al Azhar, in Al Manufiya, Egypt. 
 Dr Omar Abdelfattah Mohamed Ibraheem, Teaching Assistant in the Faculty of Sharia and Law, Al Azhar, Egypt. 
 Dr Taher Mohamed Abdelhakem Ahmed al Fakhrany, Assistant Professor, Religious Jurisprudence Department, Al Azhar, Egypt.
 Dr Ahmed Ali Ahmed Ali Hassan, Lecturer in the Faculty of Sharia, Al Azhar, Egypt. 
 Dr Mahmoud Abdel Ghany Ashour, Vice President, Al Azhar, Egypt.

 
 













