addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the most Generous, the all Forgiving. He offers acceptance to the fasting people amongst His servants. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger; Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. He was one of the most generous and beneficial people, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah . Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18). He has also said, "So give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Believers,
On these days of Ramadan, people are to receive blessed nights, during which our Prophet pbuh used to increase acts of worships. Saiyda Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, reported that Allah's Messenger would exert himself in devotion during the last ten nights to a great extent than at any other time.
She also said that when the last ten nights began the Prophet pbuh kept awake at night (for prayer and devotion), wakened his family, and prepared himself to observe prayer (with more vigour).
O Servants of Allah, strive hard during these nights in which reward is multiplied and doors (to Heaven) are opened. Also turn to your Lord, who has ordered us to do good and promised us great recompense. Truly anyone who seize this opportunity by engaging in beneficial work shall receive good tidings.
 Dear Servants of Allah,
During these days, our Prophet pbuh would stand at night in prayer, recite the holy Quran, spend his money in charity and other good work. He guided his Companions to this path, and they followed his example. It had also been followed by others, amongst the righteous, who came later.
To date, the same tradition continues as evidenced in the good deeds undertaken by many. In UAE, Allah the Sublime has blessed us with righteous rulers, scholars, men and women. Everyone has had a sheer contribution to good work, and deserves sincere gratitude for that. The foremost of those was the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He unified this country around a good cause, solidified its edifice and set a good example of human care, kindness and charity.
But his giving was not limited to his own people. It had also extended to various parts of the world, highlighting the universal character of his thinking and vision. It also revealed how compassionate he was. He sponsored many orphans and poor people, provided shelter for homeless, fed the hungry, clothed the needy and touched many widows' and bereaved hearts with joy and happiness. Indeed, his work has earned him a place in people's hearts.
This calls to mind the Hadith saying: "when Allah loves a slave, calls out Jibreel and says, 'I love so-and-so; so love him'. Then Jibreel loves him. After that he (Jibreel) announces to the inhabitants of heavens that Allah loves so-and-so; so love him; and the inhabitants of the heavens (the angels) also love him and then make people on earth love him."
 Dear Muslims,
Thanks to Allah the Almighty, such good deeds and great achievements by Sheikh Zayed, the benevolent, are still continuing. He left after him pious successors and great people, who follow his path. HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, is leading the UAE, a country of giving, along with his Deputy, his Brothers, the Rulers of the Emirates, his trustworthy Crown Prince and Offspring, may Allah protect them all.
They give the finest example of the acts of giving and charity inside and outside UAE. They are seen building the nation, safeguarding its acquisitions, developing services, ensuring security and stability and seeking to meet the needs of people, Emiratis and expatriates, so that everyone would enjoy comfort and serenity. Their giving hands have reached out beyond the borders and benefitted the needy in various countries.
Dear Believers,
Anyone who have done good to us has every right to be thanked in return as our guide Muhammad pbuh said, "if anyone gives you an invitation, accept it; and if anyone does you a kindness, recompense him; but if you have not the means to do so, pray for him until you feel that you have compensated him."
To be fully grateful to our wise leadership for what they have avail to us, we need to follow their steps and emulate their qualities. Humane and tolerant in dealing with people, as they are, they are also helpful, just and endowed with noble morality. We need also to teach our children the value of spending in charity as inspired by the tradition of the Founding Father of this nation. This way they can have an example of giving to follow when they seek to preserve the heritage and glories of this country and contribute to its progress. 
Furthermore, we need to make them aware that no matter how long a person lives, one day he will die. The only thing that survives is his good deeds and the love of people he treated nicely. It is true that Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, quitted this world, but his love remains in our hearts and shall continue. We shall never forget his memory and his acts of generosity.
Allah the Almighty has promised to perpetuate the work of those who do good when He says, "Indeed, it is We who bring the dead to life and record what they have put forth and what they left behind, and all things We have enumerated in a clear register." (Yasin: 12).
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to let us be among His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Allah, the Exalted loves those who are engaged in acts of charity and whose spending reaches out to others. After all the upper hand is better than the lower one (i.e., the spending hand is better than the receiving hand). And whoever does a good deed - it is for himself; and whoever does evil - it is against the self.
Allah the Almighty says, "If you do good, you do good for yourselves; and if you do evil, [you do it] to yourselves." (Al Israa: 7). He has also said, "and whatever good you put forward for yourselves - you will find it with Allah. Indeed, Allah of what you do, is Seeing." (Al Baqara: 110).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.  O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds.
O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient. O Allah, let us see the Truth as Truth and grant that we follow it. And let us see Falsehood as Falsehood and grant that we avoid it.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













