addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf donated one million dirhams to support the Campaign "Dress One Million Needy Children" led by HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President of the UAE, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai. The announcement came during a press conference held at the Red Crescent Authority (RCA) office in the presence of Dr Atiq al Falahi, its secretary general.
HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, said that this campaign added to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid's record of charitable initiatives and aimed at meeting children's needs and bringing joy to their hearts in the holy month of Ramadan. 
Assistance
Dr al Mazrouei  mentioned that HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid always seeks to fulfil the needs of afflicted people all over the world and that this move represents the wise leadership's keen interest to help those in need from all segments of society, especially children.
He called on philanthropists, be they individuals, institutions, or commercial organisations to bring support to the Campaign.
On another note, Dr al Mazrouei explained that HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid decided to appoint the RCA to manage the campaign because he was certain it would be able to implement it efficiently. The RCA has offices in many places around the world which will help it distribute the aid to the needy, he added.
Generous contribution
For his part, Dr al Falahi thanked Awqaf for the generous contribution it offered noting that it was one of the leading entities that support philanthropic work, inside and outside UAE.
The campaign won a great success thanks to the positive engagement of donors, whether they are individuals, government or private entities, said Dr al Falahi, adding that the RCA, through this campaign, aspires to help more than a million children inside and outside UAE. He explained that the RCA's 12 international offices in addition to the UAE's embassies had been active in providing clothes to needy children.
For the countries where the RCA is not present, delegations were being dispatched to distribute aid there and follow up the campaign progress. So far 20 of them were sent for mission, in addition to those currently existing in Egypt and Jordan, among others, he said.
Dr al Falahi expected that the campaign would succeed in raising the necessary fund to achieve its goals, calling its theme innovative. He also expected that it would be one of the most successful campaigns organised by the RCA, because it is an initiative by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid that shows his keen interest to help the vulnerable groups, mostly children.
 













