addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, attended on Ramadan, 19, the "Night of Loyalty to Sheikh Zayed, the benevolent" held at Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque by Awqaf under the patronage of the Ministry of Presidential Affairs. The event was to commemorate the ninth anniversary of the demise of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. It was also part of "Zayed Humanitarian work Day."
Also present were Their Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi, Crown Prince of Fujairah, Sheikh Hazza bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the National Security Advisor, Lt General Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Chairman of the Crown Prince Court of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sheikh Khalid bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Chairman of Etihad Airways, HE Sheikh Nahyan bin Mabarak  Al Nahyan, Minister of Culture, Youth and Community Development, HH Sheikh Maktoum bin Hamad Al Sharqi, Sheikhs, senior officials, diplomatic corps, the UAE ambassadors and a host of Emiratis and expatriates.
The  main ceremony took place at Grand Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi; in Dubai at Al Rashdiya Grand Mosque; in Sharjah at the Annour Mosque; in Ajman at Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Al Jurf; in Umm Al Quwain at Sheikh Zayed Mosque; in Ras Al Khaimah at Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Corniche Al Quasim; in Fujairah at the Cultural Centre; in Al Ain at Hamad bin Suhail al Khaili Mosque in Zakhir; in the Western Region at Sultan Mohammed Balfara al Qubaisi Mosque, and in Khor Fakkan at Omar bin al Khattab Mosque.
Speakers highlighted aspects of the late Sheikh Zayed's life, especially his humanitarian role at the level of the Arab and Islamic world as well as worldwide. They admired his work, saying it is the type of deeds that shall continue receiving reward after one's death as mentioned by our Prophet pbuh. Scholars stressed that the late Sheikh Zayed was solemn and dignified, and loved by everyone. He was one of the few persons with such qualities, they said.
The ceremony opened with a recitation of verses from the holy Quran.
HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, greeted the audience and explained that Ramadan, 19 marked the ninth anniversary of the demise of the founder of our nation and builder of its progress. His name has become associated with giving, he said.
He emphasised that our wise government named this day as "Zayed Humanitarian work Day" to pay tribute to his acts of goodness and offer to undertake humanitarian initiatives following his tradition. It shall also be an opportunity to express our love and loyalty to our leaders and promote the merits of giving which late Sheikh Zayed had instilled in his people, he said.
On this occasion, Dr al Mazrouei invoked Allah the Almighty to have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and all the founding fathers and grant them Paradise. He also supplicated to Allah to protect our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Their Brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Listing some of the late Sheikh Zayed's tributes, Dr al Mazrouei mentioned that he built a strong nation, unified scattered tribes around a good cause and offered means of dignified living and welfare to people. He established schools, universities, hospitals, cities and villages and provided them with the best of services, he said, adding that late Sheikh Zayed turned dry deserts into green oases, brought the UAE and its people to a higher position amongst other peoples thanks to his wise vision, humanitarian approach, influential personality, sensible policies and noble attitudes, and laid the foundation for the humanitarian work in UAE on the basis of respect of human integrity as Allah the Sublime says, "and We have certainly honored the children of Adam."   
"His caring hand extended to all people of different faiths and nationalities. He sponsored orphans, provided shelters to homeless, fed the hungry, dressed the poor, brought joy to widows, assisted the vulnerable, and attended to the needy, Dr al Mazrouei said.
"The humanitarian action initiated by Sheikh Zayed was still continuing through great men he left after him, and who have followed his footstep. Here is HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, is leading the march of goodness alongside his Deputy, Their Brothers, Rulers of the Emirates and his trustworthy Crown Prince as well as his offspring, may Allah protect them all. They all set the finest example in giving inside and outside UAE," he said.
He added:  "we pray to Allah the Almighty to protect our wise leadership and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security. We hereby vow to stand by our leadership and follow their footstep, seeking the best for our nation."
A number of scholars, the Guests of HH the UAE President, spoke of the late Sheikh Zayed's virtues, bringing into focus his generosity in the Artab world and elsewhere.
They also praised his unification efforts, and stressed the importance of adherence to authentic values Sheikh Zayed had promoted for the sake of the progress of the UAE. Moreover, they called for the importance of working towards anything that can further consolidate unity and nation's progress under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa, and supplicated to Allah to have His mercy on late Sheikh Zayed and grant him a high abode in paradise.
 













