addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All Praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I extol him as is befitting to his majesty and sovereignty. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger; Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al Baqara: 183).
Dear Believers,
Allah the Exalted is the Creator of all things, the One, the Prevailing. He created the heavens and earth, the night and the day, the sun and the moon, the jinn and mankind, plants and animals, time and place. Yet He the Almighty prefers mankind over all other creatures as He says, "and We have certainly honoured the children of Adam and carried them on the land and sea and provided for them of the good things and preferred them over much of what We have created, with [definite] preference." (Al Israa: 70).
He the Almighty also prefers Prophets and Messengers over all other people as He says, "Allah chooses from the angels messengers and from the people. Indeed, Allah is Hearing and Seeing." (Al Haj: 75), and He prefers Ramadan over all other months and days, of which Laylat Al Qadr (the Night of Decree) is the best of all. It is the most sacred night of all times thanks to its virtues and blessings. About it Allah the Exalted says, "Indeed, We sent the Quran down during the Night of Decree." (Al Qadr: 1-2). Decree means also measure, so during this sacred night Allah the Sublime decides about matters and rules, and assigns provisions and times. On this account He the Almighty says, "On that night is made distinct every precise matter." (Addukhan: 4).
At this night ranks are raised and good deeds increased as the Aya says, "The Night of Decree is better than a thousand months." It is said that this Aya describes the merits of the Night of Decree as associated with the amount of good deeds undertaken in that timespan. Plenty of reward, of no parallel in a thousand months, is also granted in return for engaging further in acts of obedience in that particular night.
On this matter, it was related from Malik that he had heard a man he trusted of the people of knowledge say, "the Messenger of Allah pbuh was shown the lifespans of the people (who had gone) before him, or what Allah willed of that, and it was as if the lives of the people of his community had become too short for them to be able to do as many good actions as others before them had been able to do with their long lives, so Allah gave him Laylat Al Qadr, which is better than a thousand months."
For its high merit, our Prophet pbuh promised those who stand at this sacred night in prayer would see their previous sins forgiven. He pbuh said, "whoever spends the nights of Ramadan in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins." A further demonstration of its elevated status, Allah the sublime has made this sacred night a time for the angels to descend and register their testimonies. He says, "The angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter. Peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al Qadr: 4-5).
Ibn Kathir wrote that at this night angels descend in larger number due to its abundant blessings. He added that angels descend with the descending of blessings and mercy, just as they do when the holy Quran is being recited or when people are gathering to invoke Allah. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "and verily, the angels who are on the earth during that night are more numerous than the number of pebbles."
Congratulations to those who, by the grace of Allah, strive hard and stand the night of decree in prayer.
O Those Who Fast,
The Night of Decree is also a night of peace as mentioned in the Aya: "Peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al Qadr: 5). According to interpreters, this means there is peace and all of it is good and there is no evil in it.  It is security in which Shaytan cannot do any evil or any harm. This is a call for you to do your best at these nights by adhering to the most sincere behaviours and thinking good of others. During this night we have to avoid feelings of rancour or hatred. So anyone who has a dispute with his brother or someone from his kinship needs to take the initiative and forgive.
As a matter of fact, the knowledge of the Night of Decree was taken away because of the quarrelling of two Muslims. Ubada bin Assamit reported that  the Prophet pbuh came out to inform us about the Night of Qadr but two Muslims were quarreling with each other. So, the Prophet pbuh said, "I came out to inform you about the Night of Qadr but such-and-such persons were quarreling, so the news about it had been taken away; yet that might be for your own good, so search for it on the 29th, 27th and 25th (of Ramadan)." Dear Servants of Allah,
Do your utmost to seek the benefits of the Night of Decree by engaging in prayers, Dhikr, Quran recitation and supplications, for Indeed Allah has orderd His servants to pray to him. And in return He the Almighty has promised to respond as He says, "and your Lord says, "Call upon Me; I will respond to you." (Ghafir: 60).
It was reported that whomsoever the door of supplication is opened for, the doors of acceptance have been opened for him. On the same account, Allah the Exalted says, "and when My servants ask you, [O Muhammad], concerning Me - indeed I am near. I respond to the invocation of the supplicant when he calls upon Me. So let them respond to Me [by obedience] and believe in Me that they may be [rightly] guided." (Al Baqara: 186).
It was narrated that the best supplication to say at this sacred night is asking for forgiveness and wellness. In this regard, Sayida Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "O Messenger of Allah, what do you think I should say in my supplication, if I come upon Laylatul-Qadr?" He said: "Say: 'Allahumma innaka 'afuwwun tuhibbul afwa, faafu anni (O Allah, You are Forgiving and love forgiveness, so forgive me)."
With this in mind, we seek Your favour to grant us your forgiveness, bless us with wellness and make us amongst the people of the Night of Decree. We supplicate to You to bestow upon us security in our homeland, avail to us abundant provision, guide us to do good deeds, and award us with Your mercy.
We also seek Your grace to let us be among Your virtuous servants and help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey in compliance with Your injunctions: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it should be and know that amongst the acts of obedience that bring people nearer to Allah the Sublime is speding in charity. In this spirit, UAE has launched a charitable campaign under the directives of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, to support Egypt.  The "Egypt in our Hearts" intiative is devoted to infrastructure projects and public services. You are kindly urged therefore to take part in this drive, which is managed by the UAE Red Crescent Authority, an entity acclaimed for its active participation in this domain.
Please also be aware that fasting shall be complemeted by Zakat al Fitr, an obligation ordered by our Prophet pbuh in the month of Ramadan. Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated, "The Messenger of Allah pbuh enjoined Zakat al Fitr on the one who fasts (i.e. fasted during the month of Ramadan) to purify him from any indecent act or speech and for the purpose of providing food for the needy. It is accepted as Zakat for the person who pays it before the Eid prayer and it is Sadaqa (i.e. voluntary charity) for the person who pays it after the Eid prayer."
A Muslim shall pay Zakat for himself and his dependents. It is equivalent to one Saa, a measure of 2 kilogrammes of staple foodfor most of thecountry, to be distributed to the poor. Ibn Umar said that Allah's Messenger pbuh prescribed the payment of Zakat al Fitr (on breaking the fast) of Ramadan for people, for every freeman, or slave, male and female, the young and the elderly, among the Muslims-one saa of dried dates, or one saa of barley." He ordered to be distributed before worshippers go out for the Eid al Fitr prayer.
Some Scholars permit paying Zakat al Fitr in cash, which can also be distributed one or two days before Eid. This year, the Religious Committee set Zakat at AED 20.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
May Allah accept our fasting and prayers. O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 
 
 
 













