addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Ammar bin Humaid Al Nuaimi, Crown Prince of Ajman, Chairman of Ajman Executive Council, renewed allegiance to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President of the UAE, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Ruler of Ajman and their brothers their Highness Members of The Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates.
Sheikh Ammar Al Nuaimi was speaking at the ceremony he attended at Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Ajman and held by Awqaf branch on the occasion of "Zayed Humanitarian Work Day- Loyalty to Sheikh Zayed the benevolent," which commemorated the ninth anniversary of his demise.
"On these blessed days we pray for the Founding Father of this nation, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He passed away on this day nine years ago but his memory is still with us. We still feel his presence everywhere,  and we still benefit from his wisdom and legacy of achievements.
"He was wise and humanitarian leader who sought progress for his people, caring for them and foremost giving priority to build them. He once said, 'truly the citizen is the real wealth on this earth and is the priciest potential of this country. There is no development of physical resources without qualified humans who are able to build the nation'," he said.
Referring to the progress and prosperity achieved in UAE today, Sheikh Ammar mentioned that this came as a result of a genuine investment in Emiratis, who have studied in prestigious universities, acquired highest skills and succeeded in every field.
He continued saying that late Sheikh Zayed's tributes, his national and humanitarian qualities are the beacons that enlighten our path of integrity and pride and a guidance for us in love for the nation, loyalty and giving. He stressed that Emiratis are following the footprint of the Founding Father by engaging in acts of charity and standing by the wronged. Indeed, Sheikh Zayed had been an example of modesty and tolerance, seeking to promote justice and support the oppressed and the needy around the world, he said.
Sheikh Ammar praised HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, saying that he is a worthy successor to the best predecessor, who along with his Deputy Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid are completing the process of building the nation and its progress.
"It is a night of loyalty and an occasion to renew allegiance to our leader and the President of our country His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, his Deputy and their brothers, Rulers of the Emirates and his trustworthy the Crown Prince, may Allah grant them success," he concluded.
For his part, Mr Obeid Hamad al Zaabi, director of Awqaf branch in Ajman said that this night is a recognition of the Founding Father and an opportunity to renew loyalty to HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, may Allah protect them and grant them success.
Sheikh Zayed will go down in history as a wise leader who was keen to raise the status of his people, he said, adding that he was a pioneer in promoting principles of moderation and consolidating humanitarian values.
Scholars, Guests of HH the President, who attended the Night of Loyalty there highlighted many of Sheikh Zayed's aspects of generosity, listing examples of his compassion and giving that encompassed orphans, widows and divorced all around the world.
At the end of the ceremony, which was attended by a host of worshippers and local officials, the audience supplicated to Allah to confer upon late Sheikh Zayed His mercy and grant him a high abode in paradise. They also prayed to the Almighty that the march of goodness to continue under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa, his Deputy, his brothers the Rulers of the Emirates and his trustworthy the Crown Prince.
 
 













