addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf honoured winners of this year's edition of the holy Quran memorisation competition. The ceremony was held at the Officer's Club theatre in Abu Dhabi, and was attended by HE Ahmed Ould al Ninni, Minister of the Islamic Affairs and Traditional Education in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, HE Dr Dr Mohamed Nouh Ali Maabdeh Rehab, Minister of Islamic Affairs in Jordan,  HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Court, Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director for Islamic affairs and a host of elite scholars, Guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, students and parents.
In a speech, Dr al Mazrouei, extended his sincere thanks to the wise leadership for their keen interest in encouraging the holy Quran learning and providing means for further development of the Quranic centres and mosques. He also seized this opportunity to pray to Allah to bestow his mercy on late Sheikh Zayed, who laid down the basis for the holy Quran centres in UAE, and thank the audience, members of the jury and all those who contributed to the success of this great event.
Dr al Kaabi introduced the participants and praised their eagerness for high achievement in UAE, a land of religion, tradition, glory and scholarship, he said. He also applauded the values of authenticity and accomplishment promoted by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, his brothers Their Highness Rulers of the Emirates and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He also commended the positive efforts by parents in encouraging their sons and daughters to study and memorise the holy Quran, saying that candidates came from about one thousand mosques and more than 62 Quranic centres all over the country.
During the ceremony, a tie breaker question quiz was given to choose the top three winners in the boys' category as their level of memorisation and Tajweed emerged to be too close. The Jury consisted of HE Ould al Ninni, Minister of the Islamic Affairs in Mauritania, Dr Mohamed Rehab, Minister of Islamic Affairs in Jordan and Mr Farouk Mahmoud from Al Azhar University. Before awarding the winners, students performed short plays and chanted national anthems.
It is worth mentioning that Awqaf is organising this contest on regular basis to motivate students and teachers from the Quranic centres to compete in the memorisation of the holy Quran and its recitation. Awqaf also formed local juries at the level of its branches across UAE to oversee the preliminaries taken place in March.
 













