addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds.  We thank Him as is befitting to His glorious Sovereignty and Status. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do."(Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Believers,
Allah the Sublime has magnificently created the universe and made it infinitely expansive. He dispersed therein boundless worlds, and His knowledge has encompassed all creatures and objects. Not absent from Him is any [part] of an atom's weight within the earth or within the heaven. And none can encompass a thing of His knowledge except for what He wills. Allah the Almighty says, "say, 'None in the heavens and earth knows the unseen except Allah'." (Annaml: 65). It is worthwhile mentioning that believing in the Unseen is an article of faith and one of the characteristics of the believers as Allah says, "This is the Book about which there is no doubt, a guidance for those conscious of Allah - Who believe in the unseen, establish prayer, and spend out of what We have provided for them." (Al Baqara: 2-3).
Through the holy Quran, Allah revealed news of the unknown realm to His Messenger, which neither him nor his people could have ever known before. In so doing, Allah the Almighty would like to empower his Apostle's will, strengthen his stance and increase his patience. In this regard, He says, "that is from the news of the unseen which We reveal to you, [O Muhammad]. You knew it not, neither you nor your people, before this. So be patient; indeed, the [best] outcome is for the righteous." (Hud: 49).
It was also related to the Prophet pbuh news of former Messengers so to provide for him a firmer position in faith and a teaching for the Believers. Allah has said, "And each [story] We relate to you from the news of the messengers is that by which We make firm your heart. And there has come to you, in this, the truth and an instruction and a reminder for the believers." (Hud: 120).
On another note, the holy Quran recounts facts and events that would happen later like scenes from the Day of Resurrection, depicting its horrors and griefs. Allah the Exalted says, "But when there comes the Deafening Blast on the Day a man will flee from his brother and his mother and his father for every man, that Day, will be a matter adequate for him." (Abasa: 33-37). This is a reminder for believers to ready themselves for the Hereafter with the best deeds and virtuous qualities. Our Prophet pbuh used to advise his Companions to follow his path and tradition as narrated by Anas Ibn Malik, who said that a man asked:"when will the Hour be established O Allah's Messenger?" He pbuh said, "what have you prepared for it?"The man said, "I love Allah and His Apostle."The Prophet said, "You will be with those whom you love."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Believing in the Unknown nurtures in the heart of the believer a sincere fear of Allah and so further strengthen his stamina for observing acts of worships and purity of intentions.  Allah the Almighty says, "You can only warn those who fear their Lord unseen and have established prayer. And whoever purifies himself only purifies himself for [the benefit of] his soul. And to Allah is the [final] destination." (Fatir: 18).
Therefore, whoever feared Allah the Most Merciful- unseen- and believed in what had been informed of Paradise and Hell, bliss and unhappiness, reward and punishment would have his senses and conscience mended, heart repented, intention purified, and ultimately the Paradise granted as recompense. Allah says, "and Paradise will be brought near to the righteous, not far, [it will be said], 'this is what you were promised - for every returner [to Allah ] and keeper [of His covenant] who feared the Most Merciful unseen and came with a heart returning [in repentance]'." (Qaf: 31-33).
Any person with strong faith should believe that whatever Allah has decreed for him whether good or bad is of the Unseen domain. Allah alone knows it. And no matter what, it shall be a good thing for him as Allah the Sublime says, "but perhaps you hate a thing and it is good for you; and perhaps you love a thing and it is bad for you. And Allah Knows, while you know not." (Al Baqara: 216).
Anyone who has got good lot, he must not ignore thanking his Lord in return, for maybe more blessings are in store for him.  And anyone who has endured misfortune, he must remain patient as his patience is not but through Allah. Our Prophet pbuh said, "strange are the ways of a believer for there is good in every affair of his and this is not the case with anyone else except in the case of a believer for if he has an occasion to feel delight, he thanks Allah, thus there is a good for him in it, and if he gets into trouble and shows resignation (and endures it patiently), there is a good for him in it."
O Servants of Allah, be content with what Allah had decreed for you in the Unseen for the best is what Allah has chosen to us. He says, "no disaster strikes upon the earth or among yourselves except that it is in a register before We bring it into being - indeed that, for Allah , is easy - in order that you not despair over what has eluded you and not exult [in pride] over what He has given you. And Allah does not like everyone self-deluded and boastful." (Al Hadid:22-23).
With this in mind we seek Allah's grace to make us amongst those who have faith in the Unknown, observe prayers and spend from what He has provided us. May Allah let us enjoy the sweetness of faith so we do not like to delay what  He has put forth, or hasten what He has put back. May Allah let us also be amongst His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and know that among the acts that contradict the Muslim's belief in the Unseen is his recourse to sorcerers and charlatans, who trick people and illegally get their money. They claim they know the Unseen, yet None knows the unseen except Allah. So be cautious not to seek out for them, and kindly cooperate with the concerned authorities to report them because they pose threat to the community and religion. Our Prophet pbuh said, "He who visits a diviner (Arraf) and asks him about anything, his prayers extending to forty nights will not be accepted."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous. O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation 
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













