addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Since beginning of last Ramadan, Awqaf has adopted new ways to publicise religious and awareness programmes using new technologies, especially through social network websites. As a result it shed  publicity spending by 85 per cent. Awqaf had previously created accounts on social network websites with the goal of reaching out to maximum number of people in the shortest of time possible.
Speaking to the Dubai-based newspaper Emarat Al Youm, Mr Khaled Mohammed Sayf al Neyadi, the executive director of Waqf affairs, said Awqaf used to call for public relations companies' services to undertake awareness and marketing campaigns. The cost to do that was high while the return on investment was poor, prompting Awqaf to prepare a study which showed that the size of attendance to those events and seminars remained moderate compared to the volume of spending, he said.
Mr al Neyadi added that the idea was based on advertising Awqaf events extensively and making them reachable to everyone from home by engaging members of the public to participate virtually through social media channels. He said that for this purpose Awqaf started implementing its plan as of early Ramadan by forming working teams which reported the ongoing events through its accounts on Facebook, Twitter and Youtube.
Relatedly, Mr al Neyadi explained that Awqaf had contacted Twitter regional office in Dubai to know the best Twitterers in UAE whether in news, social issues or sport. So far four groups had been identified covering about 80 per cent of active participants in cyber space. Through their accounts, Awqaf transmitted information about the entity and the events it had been organising.
In so doing it succeeded in cutting down the advertising cost associated with conventional means of publicity by more than 85 per cent. Thus, many of the pamphlets and brochures were converted electronically and advertisements, whether audio or video, that are normally paid have become available for free and of unlimited frequency. This way one advertisement can have wider scope of visibility and be shared among members in social media websites.
Statistics showed that the number of people who have benefitted from Awqaf programmes rose by as many as eight times compared to when using conventional campaigns.
Mr al Neyadi further explained that despite the short period of time since engaging virtually, Awqaf were contacted by advertising companies which used to offer conventional advertising services to it and suggested future projects using this time social media for promotion purposes.
Mr Al Neyadi stated that Awqaf used to print a million copies of brochures for distribution, but now one twitter can transmit the information far and wide, reaching more than half a million persons in a record time. Online circulation of information has also benefitted Awqaf in covering its activities and increasing the beneficiaries from its religious discourse, he said.
On another note, he revealed that Awqaf would use marketing content with psychological influence to address emotions because they are the main drive for giving, and expand a database for collecting internal and external information.
 













