addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
 
 First sermon
Praise be to Allah. We thank Him, and seek His help and forgiveness. We repent to Him, and we ask Him to protect us and guard us from the evil within ourselves, and the evil of our deeds. Those who are guided by Allah, nothing shall misguide them, and those who are misguided by Allah; nothing shall guide them. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Believer,
Allah the Sublime has devoted many chapters and verses from the holy Quran for stressing the elevated status of his Messenger Muhammad pbuh and establishing him as a role model for mankind. He the almighty says, "There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often." (Al Ahzab: 21(.
One of the chapters that recounts aspects of the Prophet's life and traditions is Adduha, a Meccan Sura, in which Allah comforted him when revelations had been delayed for some days. As a result the Prophet got distressed and fell ill. About this incident, it was narrated that a woman said to the Prophet, "O Muhammad, I do not see but that your Satan has left you." Thereupon Allah, the Glorious revealed: "By the fore-noon, and by the night when it darkens (or is still); Your Lord has not forsaken you, nor hated you." (Aduwa: 1-3).
The verse came, however, to reassure the Prophet pbuh of his Lord's love and high status. It openly stated that neither did Allah forsake him, nor desert him, but He wanted to show to people that revelation was but by His commands alone. He says in this regard, "[Gabriel said], "And we [angels] descend not except by the order of your Lord. To Him belongs that before us and that behind us and what is in between. And never is your Lord forgetful." (Maryam: 64).
Surat Adduha tells also the merits of the Hereafter over the worldly life as it clearly says, "and the Hereafter is better for you than the first [life]." (Adduha: 4). It implies a promise that what is awaiting people in the next life is by no means similar to what is in the current. It is therefore a call not to feel sorry if some of this life's benefits are missed as Allah has better than that in store for His servants.
In light of this spirit, our Prophet pbuh was less after life pleasures and was known for his self-denial. So when he had to choose, as his life drew to an end, between eternity on earth or joining his Lord, he pbuh went for the latter. In so doing he sought the Heavenly bliss. It was reported from Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, that Allah's Messenger went out while he was ill with a bandage on his head, sat on the pulpit... and said, "Allah gave a choice to one of (His) servants either to choose this world or what is with Him in the Hereafter. He chose the latter."
Truly the winners are those who have dedicated themselves to doing good deeds in life, and look forward to the next life with a sincere will. Those indeed who Allah praises their endeavour and accept their work. He says, "But whoever desires the Hereafter and exerts the effort due to it while he is a believer - it is those whose effort is ever appreciated [by Allah]." (Al Israa: 19).
As an act of honour towards His Messenger, Allah the Exalted promised in this Sura to award him with the best of blessings and please him. He the Almighty says, "and your Lord is going to give you, and you will be satisfied." (Adduha: 5). This is a Divine pledge of a larger scope comprising recompense accorded to the Prophet pbuh in this life and the next, mainly granting him the privilege of the intercession. Abu Huraira reported that the Prophet pbuh said, "there is for every apostle a (special) prayer with which he would pray. I wish I could reserve, my prayer for intercession of my Umma on the Day of Resurrection."
Dear Muslims,
Furthermore, Surat Adduha came to stress the crucial importance of caring for orphans. It says, "so as for the orphan, do not oppress [him]." (9). This call was best attended to by Allah's Apostle Muhammad pbuh, who would treat orphans kindly, care for them and encourage their sponsorship. He said, "I and the sponsor of an orphan shall be in Paradise like these two."And he indicated with his fingers, meaning his index and his middle finger. So those who engage in this highly merited act of sponsoring orphans are truly blessed.
Similarly, Adduha calls for providing help to the poor and distressed as it says, "and as for the petitioner, do not repel [him]." (10). With a praised self-denial attitude and no fear of poverty, the Prophet pbuh used to give generously to those who were in hardship.
Abu Said al Khudri related that some people of the Ansar asked the Messenger of Allah pbuh and he gave to them. Then they asked him again, and he gave to them until he used up what he had. Then he said, "What wealth I have, I will not hoard from you. Whoever has forbearance, Allah will help him. Whoever tries to be independent, Allah will enrich him. Whoever tries to be patient, Allah will give him patience, and no one is given a better or vaster gift than patience."
Yet the Prophet pbuh warned against weak-hearted persons abusing such a Quranic instruction by showing they are needy to avoid earning their living by themselves and relying instead on others for increasing their wealth. On this matter our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "he who asks others to give to him in order to increase his own wealth, is akin to one who asks for live coals. He who wishes to have more, let him have it and he who wishes to have less, let him have it."
O Servants of Allah, please rest assured that charities and social assistance given by official bodies go only to those eligible according to religious and legal rules. So no one shall infringe the rights of the needy by, for example, providing erroneous information to mislead donors. This is an infamous act, which is contrary to religion and human character and causes its doers punishment on the Day of Judgment. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh warned: "Some men acquire Allah's Property and they will go to Hell on the Day of Resurrection."
Interpreters said that this Hadith condemns the act of taking more money than necessary by those eligible.   Qabisa bin Mukhariq al Hilali, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "asking for (the money of) Zakat is justified only for the following three: first, a man who is in debt: it is then permissible for him to receive [Zakat] until his difficulty is resolved; second, a man who was struck by calamity, which destroyed his holdings, which also makes it permissible for him to receive [Zakat] until he is in a position to earn his own living; and third, a man who has been reduced to poverty and three persons of caliber from among his people testify to his desperate circumstances.
"Such will receive until he finds a means of support for himself. Other than these cases, O Qabisah, it is considered as taking suht (unlawful or Haram earnings), and the person receiving it (this Zakat) will be consuming forbidden (unlawful) holdings."
Having said this, we seek Allah's favour to suffice us with (all that is) Halal from Him (and save us) from (all that is) Haram from Him and make us independent by His virtue from anyone besides Him. May Allah let us be amongst His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59)
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and know that the invocation of His blessing is a form of thanking Him. That is why He orders at the end of Surat Adduha: "but as for the favour of your Lord, report [it]." (11). On the same account, the Prophet said, "talking about the grace of Allah is thanking. Leaving it is disbelief. Thus, who does not thank for little, does not thank for much. He, who does not thank people, does not thank Allah."
With this in mind, let us thank Allah for his great favour which we are enjoying in our beloved country: the UAE. Let us also be grateful to Him for making our hearts united, our country stable, and for blessing us with wise leaders who we love and who love us for the sake of Allah. We pray to Him to protect them all and grant them every success.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous. O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 













