addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Haj delegation is to start inspecting this week UAE pilgrims' accommodations in the Holy Sites. It will verify whether Haj operators comply with the housing requirements, said Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, head of the UAE pilgrims' affairs.
In a statement to Al Ittihad newspaper, he said that the delegation attaches special attention to pilgrims' housing conditions, and mostly to the hygiene level, ease of access and safety.
He explained that the inspection committee will be operational in the Holy sites before and during the Haj season. It will be available to receive complaints from pilgrims and look into them onsite, he said, adding that if the contravening operator fails to address the violation, it will be fined. He warned that if the breach was serious this might lead to suspension.
Following the Saudi authorities' guidelines, Mr al Mazrouei mentioned that the UAE pilgrims' quota had been reduced this year by 1200 as a result of the Mataf expansion works under way in the Grand Mosque in Mecca. This also came in agreement with other Islamic countries to reduce the number of their pilgrims by 20 per cent.
He added that the UAE delegation would comply with the prescribed quota, which will see the number of pilgrims from UAE drop this year from 6228 to 4982.
He urged Haj operators to respect the number of pilgrims they can accept according to the Official Haj Delegation (OHD)'s ordinances, noting that licences will be issued only to those which have complied with the quota.
On another note, he mentioned that the inspection committee had met earlier at Awqaf headquarters to finalise various preparations for this year's Haj. The meeting discussed procedures to follow in checking the quality of buildings, facilities and services. Special focus will be on whether they are ready to host pilgrims. Mr al Mazrouei stressed that buildings that did not conform to the standards would not be approved.
Operators must also respect space specifications per person as set by the committee, he concluded.
 
 













