addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah. We thank Him as is befitting to His glorious Sovereignty and Status. He is the Most Great, much good and blessed praise to Him. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who said, "If anyone performs ablution, doing it well, then come to the Friday prayer, listens and keeps silence, his sins between that time and the next Friday will be forgiven, with three days extra; but he who touches pebbles has caused an interruption."
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon the Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, if you fear Allah, He will grant you a criterion and will remove from you your misdeeds and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty." (Al Anfal: 29).
Dear Muslims,
Man is by nature a social being; he naturally enjoys mingling with others and be in harmony with them. A reference to this is found in the holy Quran: "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted." (Al Hujurat: 13).
Yet social relations cannot be without flaws or disruptions. That is why being open to people and forgiving is considered a good attitude of a Muslim. Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "Indeed when the Muslim mixes with the people and he is patient with their harm, he is better than the Muslim who does not mix with the people and is not patient with their harm."
To establish a strong-bonded community, our Guide Muhammad pbuh ordained us to adopt ethics that build up and maintain links amongst individuals. Thus he pbuh requested us to give away food and spread greetings. It was narrated by Abdullah bin Amr that a person asked Allah's Messenger pbuh: "what (sort of) deeds in or (what qualities of) Islam are good?" He replied, "To feed (the poor) and greet those whom you know and those whom you don't know."
Thus, offering Salam (greeting) has come to be seen as a  message of love, harmony and a cause for forgiveness, for he pbuh said, "no two Muslims meet each other and shake hands, except that Allah forgives them before they part."
It was reported on this account that when the Prophet met someone, he would welcome him and would not leave until the other person did. And if someone extended his hand to shake his (pbuh), he would reach to it and clasp it, yet he would let the other person withdraw first.
Greeting each other is even nicer if it comes with a smile and a pleasant attitude so it can further be appreciated. Our Prophet pbuh said, "do not consider any act of goodness as being insignificant even if it is meeting your brother with a cheerful face."
Dear Servants of Allah,
One of the many social ethics that Islam has attached great attention to is etiquette pertaining to gatherings, where men get together for good ends and reconciliation between people. Allah the Sublime says, "no good is there in much of their private conversation, except for those who enjoin charity or that which is right or conciliation between people. And whoever does that seeking means to the approval of Allah- then We are going to give him a great reward." (Annisaa: 114).
One of the good manners highlighted by our Prophet pbuh in this regard is avoiding private discussion when there is a third companion. He said, "if you are three, two should not converse secretly to the exclusion of your companion for that hurts his feelings." He also ordered us to give space to those joining the gathering. Allah the Almighty says, "O you who have believed, when you are told, "Space yourselves" in assemblies, then make space; Allah will make space for you." (Al Mujadala: 11).
When the Messenger of Allah pbuh intended to get up from the assembly he used to say in the last, what means: "glory be to You. O Allah, and I begin with praise of You, I testify that there is no god but You; I ask Your pardon, and return to You in repentance."
Thus in the best interest of children, parents should bring them to attend men gatherings so they can learn their grandfathers' traditions. Those assemblies are also good opportunities for educating the youth noble values, authentic traditions and a great sense of patriotism.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that one way to strengthen social relations is by exchanging visits at weddings and other celebrations. Yet it is important to choose the right time for doing that. For example, it is not appropriate to visit someone during his rest time. Similar things to observe are knocking gently on the door, avoiding standing right in front of it or watching if the caller is not permitted yet to enter. The Prophet pbuh said, "do not approach the houses facing their doors but from the (door) sides. First greet (their dwellers) and if you are permitted then enter, otherwise retreat."
For another, when someone accepts an invitation he must not bother his host by accompanying an uninvited third party without a permission. It was reported that the Prophet pbuh and four other men were invited by someone. But another man followed them whereupon he pbuh said, "You have invited me as one of five guests, but now another man has followed us. If you wish you can admit him, and if you wish you can refuse him." On that the host said, "but I admit him."
Guests should not overstay their invitation after the meal is served so as not to burden the host and his family. Allah says, "and when you have eaten, disperse without seeking to remain for conversation." (Al Ahzab: 53). Observing these virtues are meant to promote love amongst people and increase intimacy.
Having this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to adorn us with sympathy and knowledge, and let us acquire the ethics of Islam. May Allah let us also be amongst His virtuous servants and help us to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and recognise the status of whoever has done a favour to us as our Prophet pbuh said, "treat the people according to their ranks." In this sense, parents have the right on us to respect them and duly care after them. This includes addressing them kindly and always keeping ties with them. Older people have similar rights and the younger must be generous and supportive. The youth, for their part, need to be treated nicely and rightly guided. Likewise, teachers have rights on their students.
The above is summed up in the following Hadith: "He is not from my Umma who does not acknowledge the honour due to our elders, who shows no mercy to our younger ones and nor recognises the right of our scholar."
Last but not least, we have to honour the elderly, memorisers of the holy Quran and the leaders amongst us. In this regard, our Prophet says, "glorifying Allah involves showing honour to a grey-haired Muslim and to one who can expound the Quran, but not to one who acts extravagantly regarding it, or turns away from it, and showing honour to a just ruler."  
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 













