addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf warned the public against dealing with unaccredited Haj operators, and denied licensing contractors from outside UAE. This came in a statement by Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the director of Islamic affairs and head of UAE pilgrims' affairs in the Holy Sites, who explained that UAE citizens wishing to perform Haj must respect the requirements set by Haj and Umra department in order to receive its services.
However, those who go on pilgrimage through contractors from outside UAE shall do that at their own responsibility, he said.
Speaking of vehicles' requirements, he explained that buses heading to Haj must be no more than ten years-old, be fitted with safety and comfort equipment convenient for long-haul voyages, and have sliding windows on both sides. Buses must also be equipped with onboard luggage depots, a tow strap loop - bumper mount, fire-fighting tools, and first aid kit enough for the number of passengers.
Al Mazrouei also stressed the need of having a recent technical inspection certificate issued from official centres and ensuring maintenance tools on board. Buses must not have any history of changing the steering wheel position from right to left, he said.  
On another note, Mr al Mazrouei mentioned that Awqaf is committed to a continuous improvement of services offered to UAE pilgrims as evidenced by the significant drop in complaints in recent years.
On this occasion he extended his thanks to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, their Brothers, their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He especially highlighted the wise leadership's unyielding support to the Haj Delegation and UAE pilgrims, and stressed Awqaf's devotion to implementing their instructions and providing all means of comfort to pilgrims.
Earlier, Awqaf met Haj operators and briefed them of all requirements, emphasising in particular ways of developing Haj services and ensuring pilgrims' rights.
 













