addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf said it would be firm with operators who fell short in delivering their services to UAE pilgrims, noting that housing inspection committees had flown to Jeddah.  They will verify whether campaigns comply with the specifications concerning pilgrims' accommodation in Mecca and Medina.
Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the executive director of Islamic affairs and head of pilgrims' affairs in the Holy Sites, revealed that there are 84 UAE accredited campaigns by the Saudi authorities, under which many others are listed, making the total number of Haj campaigns this year 150.
UAE will respect the quota defined by Saudi Arabia by reducing the number of UAE pilgrims from 6228 to 4982 this year, Mr al Mazrouei said, adding that the official delegation had grouped pilgrims under four specific campaign categories: special, first, second and third. Prices vary according to the type of services provided by each.
He explained that there are 10 campaigns under the special category with 47 pilgrims for each, 30 under the first category with 35 pilgrims for each, 50 under the second category with 24 pilgrims for each, while the third and last category amounts to 57 with 12 pilgrims for each. The figures concern Emirati hopeful pilgrims only.
He further explained that Awqaf had yet decided to offer four places for hopeful expatriate pilgrims with each campaign. This is in order to fulfil their desire to perform Haj along with the UAE delegation, knowing that they usually have spent a long period of time in a work, Mr al Mazrouei said.
He added that even though expatriates would in principle perform Haj from their countries of origin, yet the UAE would not restrict its resources and services only to its citizens but it would seek to extend them to benefit all.
He seized this occasion to praise the special interest of the UAE wise leadership in pilgrims and its commitment to providing them with all the necessary means to enable them perform Haj with ease.
On behalf the UAE Haj delegation he lauded the works underway in Mecca, especially the Tawaf expansion carried out by the government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques.
 













