addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah; He creates the two mates-the male and female, and places between them affection and mercy. I thank Him as is befitting to His Sovereign Status and Majesty and I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers.
 I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him in light of what He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah , through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
 Dear Muslims,
 Allah the Sublime has invited us to look into His signs, which reflect His Greatness and perfect Might. One of these is the mutual affection and mercy as in the marriage relationship. He the Almighty says, "And of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquility in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought." (Arrum: 21). Affection has been explained by interpreters as love, while mercy as feelings of sympathy and kindness.
It is said that a manrelates to a woman either out of love or sympathy. Either way, this requires compassion as Allah says, "and live with them in kindness." (Annisaa: 19). The latter is a key to living in agreement. For this feeling to grow, the husband must be lenient in speech and act. Therefore, neither should he frown at her wife without a reason; nor should he be rude. Rather he should be compassionate and considerate.
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "the best of you is the one who is best to his wife, and I am the best of you to my wives." He was kind to them, cheerful, affectionate, and generous.He would enter his house after Isha prayer, chat with his family, keeping them company for some time before he would go to sleep.
This is said, the wife, for her part, should seek helping her husband be happy and virtuous. Thus if he looks at her, he is pleased; if he commands her she obeys him. And when he is away from her, she is sincere towards him with regard to herself and with his wealth. She should also share with him his hope and distress and care after his children. Our Prophet pbuh said, "When a woman prays her five prayers, fasts her month, guards her chastity and obeys her husband - then it will be said to her: enter Paradise from whichever gate you wish."
Dear Servants of Allah,
However, it may happenthat marriage goes through difficult times, still separation and divorce should not be the choice. The married couple should under no circumstance rush to it; instead, they need to try different ways for reaching consensus. They can, for example look at the bright side of their relationship and overlook mistakes and other shortcomings. Before deciding any further into divorce, the husband must stop and think of the positive qualities of her wife, as Allah the Almighty says, "If you dislike them, it may be that you dislike a thing and Allah brings through it a great deal of good." (Annisaa: 19).
This highlights the situation of husbands, who although like less their wives, remain patient and stay with them. Those who do thiswill get great benefit in this life and the next. Scholars said this is evidence that divorce is permissible, but it is a matter most disliked to undertake.
This also goes true for the wife, who should show patience towards her husband, speak nicely about him and forgive his mistakes according to what Allah says, "and do not forget liberality between yourselves. Truly, Allah is All Watcher over what you do."And if she ever thinks of divorce, she is advised to reflect on the Hadith saying: "If any woman asks her husband for divorce without some strong reason, the odour of Paradise will be forbidden to her."
Dear Believers,
For ensuring the family stability and preventing consequences of divorce, Islam suggests a number of solutions, including counsel and dialogue to overcome differences and achieve reconciliation. Allah says, "and making peace is better." (Annisaa: 128). Peaceful settlement of disagreement is the best option and of course is better than divorce and its consequential disruption of the family. As such, only when all reconciliation attempts come to no avail, shoulddivorce be considered. Moreover this should only be a revocable one.
During Idda (the prescribed period), theestranged couple can try to live separately in the same house. Usually during this time, they may get over their anger and separation may be revoked as a result. Allah says in this regard, "You (the one who divorces his wife) know not, it may be that Allah will afterward bring some new thing to pass (i.e. to return her back to you if that was the first or second divorce)." (Attalaq: 1).In the interpretation of this Aya, it is mentioned that Allah causes the husband to change his feelings towards his wife from hatred to love, from despise to desire, and from divorcing her to going back to her.
Divorce should only come as a last resort when marriage is impossible to continue. Yet this decision should not be taken in rush orin a spite of anger, and thus is a reminder for the so many who look forward to splittingup as their first and only choice.
In so doing they risk disrupting the stability of their household and dislocating their children for trivial reasons. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh denounced such an unacceptable behaviour when addressing someone who exceeded limits in divorce. He pbuh said, "what is wrong with anyone of you who undermines the limits of Allah by saying: 'I have divorced and revoked'."
So anyone of you who is driven by anger, please do not rush to divorce. Mention to your wife her weakness [in the sense that she needs you], and at the same time praises her good deeds that will help sustain affection and a happy life between you. On this matter, our Prophet pbuh advised us saying, "Fear Allah regarding women for you have got them under Allah's security and have the right to intercourse with them by Allah's word."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please also be keen to preserve the unity of your families and children and be kind to each other.
Having this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to fill our households with love, compassion and faith. May Allah keep them safe from Satan's whispers, and always confer upon us increasing happiness and harmony.
May Allah also let us be amongst His virtuous servants and help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and know that of allthings allowed by Allah there is nothing as disliked as divorce, hence it was described by the Prophet as: "Of all the lawful acts the most detestable to Allah is divorce."
Husbands should therefore be cautious in using words that may hint at divorce or threatening their wives with in unimportant contexts or saying them jokingly. Islam takes the word divorce seriously and rejects being a subject of humour. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "there are three things which, whether undertaken seriously or in jest, are treated as serious: Marriage, divorce and taking back a wife (after a divorce which is not final)."
Anyone of you who is going through a family problem, he is kindly advised to seek the counselling services of specialised institutions that our country has established for this purpose. We can cite here the examples of the Marriage Fund, the Family Development Foundation, the Fatwa department at the Sharia   Court, among many. All of them are available to assist you to reach reconciliation and we invite you therefore to benefit from their services to help you maintain the stability of your households and families.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 
 
 













