addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In a meeting with Imams, Khateebs, Muezzins and administrative staff in Awqaf's branches in Ajman and Umm Al Quwain, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, called on everybody to duly fulfill their duties and maintain the excellence achieved by Awqaf.
Imams must stay firmly loyal to the country and reject any foreign loyalty, he said, pointing out that the UAE with all of its components: leadership, government and people, is a nation of faith, authenticity and prosperity where there is no place for foreign affiliations.
Dr al Kaabi stressed that exemplary Imams and Khateebs are supposed to be at the forefront of the loyal to this country and its wise leaders.
"You are living in a community of knowledge and positive work; it is fast progressing and becoming more modernised. So you need to keep up with this pace by being perfect in your memorisation of the holy Quran and know the meanings of its verses and the goals of Islamic religion. You need also to increase people's understanding in light of these meanings, which combine heritage and modernity," he said.
Dr al Kaabi also reminded Imams and Khateebs of always improving their oratory skills, saying that Awqaf had offered training sessions and would continue to do this.
Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Court of the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, urged Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins, to keep pace with the progress by seeking improvement and development.
"Everything in this country is progressing based on thought and at the core of it is faith. You role is to drive the march of faith and thought," he said. Dr Hamada also advised them to set themselves as good example for the community, interact with people cooperatively and advise them with wisdom and good instruction.
For his part, the strategic planning and organisational excellence expert at Awqaf spoke of the strategies underway along five management areas: knowledge, creativity and innovation, communication, environment and emergencies, crises and disasters.
 













