addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)

To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)

To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)

To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)

To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)

To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)

 
First sermon
Praise be to Allah. He sent the holy Quran as guidance and good tidings for the Muslims. It was an instruction bringing healing and mercy to the Believers.
We thank Him as is befitting to His Sovereign status and Majesty, and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things, Witness.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Imam of the Pious and Commander of the former and later peoples. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him in light of what He says, "and We have instructed those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah." (Annisaa: 131). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants, who listen to speech and follow the best of it." Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
The most perfect talk is Allah's Book; He the Almighty revealed it to His Apostle Muhammad, Seal of the Prophets. Allah said, "and indeed, the Quran is the revelation of the Lord of the worlds. The Trustworthy Spirit has brought it down upon your heart, [O Muhammad] - that you may be of the warners - In a clear Arabic language." (Ashuaraa: 192-195).
It is a book with precise verses and whose words have been detailed. Moreover by Allah's grace they have been guarded from distortion, as He said, "and indeed, it is a mighty Book. Falsehood cannot approach it from before it or from behind it; [it is] a revelation from a [Lord who is] Wise and Praiseworthy." (Fussilat: 41-42).
Allah the Sublime described it with beautiful attributes. It is the firm rope of Allah, the wise remembrance, the straight path, the one that the desires cannot distort, nor can the scholars ever have enough of it, and it is a safety net and guidance for those who follow it.
Allah the Exalted says, "indeed, this Quran guides to that which is most suitable." (Al Israa: 9). Our Prophet calls on us for the same as he said, "I have left two matters with you. As long as you hold to them, you will not go the wrong way. They are the Book of Allah and the Sunna of His Prophet."
However, to hold on to the Quran shall require of us many actions, to mention memorising and reciting it, reflecting on its meanings, respecting its rulings, adopting its ethics and values, in addition to learning and teaching it. This is summed up in the following Hadith: "the best among you is he who learns and teaches the Quran."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Adherence to the holy Quran is beneficial in a number of ways, which shall profit people in this life and the next. For one thing, the reciter of the Quran get blessings and shall have his rewards doubled. The Prophet pbuh said, "[whoever recites a letter] from Allah's Book, then he receives the reward from it, and the reward of ten the like of it. I do not say that Alif Lam Mim is a letter, but Alif is a letter, Lam is a letter and Mim is a letter."
For another, with Quran the Believer shall on the Last Day attain higher ranks in Paradise as our Prophet pbuh said, "It shall be said - meaning to the one who memorised the Quran - 'Recite, and rise up, recite (melodiously) as you would recite in the world. For indeed your rank shall be at the last Ayah you recited'." Memorisers of the holy Quran are those who recite it and abide by its teachings.
 Dear Muslims,
Observance of the Quran leads people to maintain acts of obedience by reading it and following its instructions as it should be. That is to say, they are keener to act within the boundaries it sets of what is permissible and what is not. Thus they render trusts to whom they are due, fulfill terms of contracts, stay truthful in speech and turn away their gaze. In sum, they show the moral values of the Quran.
It was narrated that Saiyda Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, was asked: "what was the character of the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, like?'" She replied, "His character was the Quran."
Scholars explained that this Hadith is a call for holding on to the Quran, respecting its prohibitions, acquiring its morality, considering its examples and stories, contemplating its meanings and nicely reading it.
Furthermore, adherence to Quran brings in happiness and stability for the family, ensuring great blessings. Abu Huraira, may Allah be pleased with him, used to say, "a household where Quran is recited shall prosper with growth of its people, see abundant provision, be visited by angels and avoided by demons."
Indeed, blessed are those who fill their hearts with Quran. They enjoy tranquillity as pointed out by our Prophet pbuh. It was reported that Ibn Masood said, "the Quran is Allah's treat, take whatever you can from it for-as I know- there is no place void of good than a house where Quran is not recited. Moreover any heart which has nothing of the Quran is as ruined as a falling-down house of no dweller."
For its merits, please be keen to read the Quran at your homes and encourage your children to do so. Indeed whoever teaches his children the Quran will be adorned with a crown of light. This is evidenced in the following Hadith. The Prophet pbuh said, "anyone who reads the Quran, seeks its learning and acts according to its teachings, he will be adorned with a crown of light on the Day of Judgment. Its light radiates like the sun. His parents will be clothed with two garments better than the earth. They will ask: "with what are we dressed? They will be said, "with what your son had held on to the Quran."
Last but not least the Quran is a cure for people as Allah says, "and We send down of the Quran that which is healing and mercy for the believers, but it does not increase the wrongdoers except in loss." (Israa: 82). This verse was interpreted by al Qurtubi that the holy Quran is guidance and healing for anyone who believes in it and with which he gets over the upsetting feelings of suspicion and distrust.
If the believer hears it, makes effort to memorise it and understand its meanings, it shall help him through his distress and remove his misdeeds. In this regard Allah says, "Allah has sent down the best statement: a consistent Book wherein is reiteration. The skins shiver therefrom of those who fear their Lord; then their skins and their hearts relax at the remembrance of Allah." (Azzumar: 23).
It shall also help its readers on the Last Day, serving them as an intercessor. Our Prophet pbuh said, "read the Quran, for it will come as an intercessor for its reciters on the Day of Resurrection."
Bearing this in mind, we ask Your favour to make the Quran the spring of our hearts, the light of our sight and the release of our concerns and sorrows. We also ask You to grant us the blessing of reading it and acting in accordance with its morals.
May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
 Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah and know that he who reads Quran Allah shall give him reward as much as he has strived. On this matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "such a person, who recites the Quran and masters it by heart, will be with the noble righteous scribes (in Heaven). And such a person exerts himself to learn the Quran by heart, and recites it with great difficulty, will have a double reward."
let us then recite it, study its meanings, acquire its morality and seek its learning and teaching. In this spirit, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments is organising as of October1, 2013, memorisation sessions in the Quranic centres and mosques it has selected for this purpose. We therefore kindly invite you all to seize this learning opportunity.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













