addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Urdu (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
 
 
First sermon
Praise be to Allah the Sublime for His endless bounties upon us. He has rewarded His servants with immense provisions and seasons of blessings.
I thank Him as is befitting to His Sovereign Status and Majesty and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion and to Him is all praise, and He is Powerful over all things.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. Allah has preferred him over many others and selected him to be His Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I call upon myself first and all of you to be ever conscious and do construct our lives as He commanded when He said, "say, "O My servants who have believed, fear your Lord. For those who do good in this world is good, and the earth of Allah is spacious. Indeed, the patient will be given their reward without account." (Azzumar: 10).
O Believers,
Out of His Mercy Allah has offered His servants many various avenues for doing good deeds and gaining benefits. For example, He has availed us special days when we can increase our thanks and prayers and come closer to Him. They are such opportunities when reward gets doubled and status raised. The Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "there are no days in the sight of Allah better than the Ten Days."
The Hadith refers to the first ten days of Dhu al-Hijja which Allah swore by them, for their high status. He the sublime said, "by the dawn and [by] ten nights and [by] the even [number] and the odd and [by] the night when it passes, is there [not] in [all] that an oath [sufficient] for one of perception?" (Al-Fajr: 1-5).
Allah took the oath on these days to highlight their great merits marking a beneficial time for undertaking major acts of worship: prayers, fasting, Haj, charity, among many. Thus, our Master Muhammad pbuh advised us to take this opportunity to strive in good deeds. He said, "There is no virtue more to the liking of Allah in any day than in these days, that is, the first ten days of Dhu al-Hijja."
Said Ibn Jubair, a Hadith narrator, used to say, "don't blow out your lamps during the last ten days," that is, to observe the late night prayer on these blessed days.
Dear servants of Allah,
Our Prophet pbuh said, "do good (deeds) for your entire lifetime, and expose yourselves to the gifts of mercy by Allah, verily Allah has gifts of His mercy He sends upon who He wishes from upon His servants."
Fasting is recommended as mentioned in a Hadith telling that the Prophet pbuh used to fast the ninth of Dhu al-Hijja. The same is confirmed by many scholars, who considered fasting as one of the favoured acts of worship on that day.
Performing both obligatory religious duties and voluntary ones is one more beneficial act in order to draw nearer to our Lord. In a Qudsi Hadith, our Prophet pbuh said, "My servant does not draw near to Me with anything more loved to Me than the religious duties I have obligated upon him. And My servant continues to draw near to me with nafil (supererogatory) deeds until I Love him."
The Muslim should therefore ready himself for the first ten days of Dhu al Hijja by repenting again to Allah the Almighty and increasing good deeds, which will be a cause for him to raise in rank and remove his misdeeds. Some of the beneficial acts also are reading the holy Quran, honouring one's parents and kinship, giving charity and remembering Allah. He the Almighty says, "that they may witness benefits for themselves and mention the name of Allah on known days," (Al Haj: 28) that is, the ten days of Dhu al-Hijja.
Truly the winners are those who never fail to adhere to what Allah has prescribed and commit themselves further to invoking their Lord during these days. There are three types of Dhikr that are recommended here: Tahlil, Takbir and Tahmid.
These are mentioned by our Prophet in the following Hadith: "there are no days greatest to Allah nor loved to perform good deeds than these ten days (first ten days of Dhu al-Hijja), so increase in invocations by Tahlil (Lai ilaha illa Allah- There is no God except Allah), takbeer (Allahu Akbar) and tahmid (Al Hamdu lillah - Praising Him)."
Tahlil is the reciatation of La Ilaha Illa Allah (there is no deity except Allah). In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "whoever says '(La ilaha illa Allah, wahdahu la sharika lah, lahu almulku wa lahu alhamd, wa huwa ala kulli shayain qadir' (there is no god but Allah, alone, without any partner. The Kingdom and praise belong to Him and He has power over everything) one hundred times a day, it is the same for him as freeing ten slaves. One hundred good actions are written for him and one hundred wrong actions are erased from him, and it is a protection from Shaytan for that day until the night. No-one does anything more excellent than what he does except someone who does more than that."
Subhana Allah wa al hamdu lilllah wa la illaha Illa Allah wa Allahu Akbar.
Dear Believers,
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh taught us also how to remember Allah in the mornings and the evenings, whether we are healthy or ill, in our homes or outside and whatever we do. Increasing our invocation to Him is one of the means to obtain His forgiveness as is mentioned in the following Hadith: "If anyone eats food and then says: 'praise be to Allah Who has fed me with this food and provided me with it through no might and power on my part,' he will be forgiven his former and later sins. If anyone puts on a garment and says: 'praise be to Allah Who has clothed me with this and provided me with it through no might and power on my part,' he will be forgiven his former and later sins."
Bearing this in mind, let us always remember our Lord, the most Exalted, and draw nearer to Him with the best of our deeds. Truly the most successful is he who is guided by Allah to obey Him.
May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah whether in secret or in public and know that it is recommended for anyone who wants to offer a sacrifice during the first ten days of Dhu al-Hijja to follow the Prophet's instructions in this regard. He pbuh said, "when the first ten days of Dhu al-Hijja begin, it is forbidden for the one who wants to offer a sacrifice to remove anything from his hair, nails or skin."
Scholars maintained that the interdictions mentioned in the Hadith can be seen as disliked things. Therefore there is nothing wrong if someone, who is offering a sacrifice, fails to observe the listed acts.
Dear Believers,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, Who said with absolute truth, "Call upon Me; I will respond to you." We pray to You, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
May Allah guide us to do good deeds on the blessed ten days of Dhu al-Hijja, bring us closer to You through acts of worship and raise our ranks.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation           
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













