addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, said that this year's Haj had been successful and was not flawed by the increased number of pilgrims caused by some campaigns. The official delegation did well in managing the surplus number and showed great professionalism in handling the situation thanks to its long experience, he explained.
However, this success could not be without the unyielding support, both moral and physical, of the wise leadership, Dr al Mazrouei said. On behalf of the delegation, he extended his sincere thanks to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates.
He also highlighted the kind support of HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE armed Forces.
This came during his reception of the official delegation at Abu Dhabi International Airport. Headed by Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, head of pilgrims' affairs office and the executive director of Islamic affairs, the delegation consisted of 140 members from many sub-committees, including pilgrims' affairs, services, medical, security and others.
For his part, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, extended his heartfelt gratitude to the leadership for their great support for the UAE pilgrims, which helped them perform Haj comfortably. He also thanked the official delegation, praising its high achievement and greeted pilgrims for their safe return.
"We had been following with great interest reports on the progress of Haj and... we were being assured that everything went well. Moreover, the increased number of pilgrims did not affect the normal course of Haj and our delegation was able to manage the situation there and helped our pilgrims," Dr al Kaabi said.
About Haj this year, Mr Mohammed al Mazrouei mentioned that his delegation was successful and was able to overcome many of overlapping tasks, whether security, medical, or logistical like supplying tents in Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifa, train ticketing and keeping contact with campaigns to know about their equipment and needs. Other duties included helping pilgrims to move around to different places for performing Haj rituals, housing them and coordinating with the Saudi authorities.
He said, "the delegation role is a duty rewarded by Allah and translates the directives from the UAE leadership, who are keen to ensure safety and comfort for UAE pilgrims by providing their needs throughout the Haj period. We are happy... that the delegation has always received praise and appreciation from all and become a model for many."
With reference to the increased number of pilgrims caused by campaigns, Mr Mohammed al Mazrouei said, "this was not the responsibility of the delegation which prepared the camps as planned. Yet in Mina it was surprised by an unexpected number of pilgrims, prompting it to reorganise camps whether in Mina, Arafa or Muzdalifa. As a solution, service areas were made suitable to accommodate all pilgrims."
He added: "yet the big number of pilgrims remained less than a phenomenon, or was [beyond our control]. And despite this [challenge] the UAE delegation set an example amongst its counterparts and was able to complete its mission... The safe return and satisfaction of pilgrims can speak for its success and reflect the vision of our leadership aiming at offering all means of comfort to UAE citizens and residents."
 













