addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President of the UAE, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, launched the mDonation service on Awqaf application. This came during the opening day of Gitex Technology Week held in Dubai World Trade Centre from October 20 to 24, 2013.
Awqaf took part in Gitex Technology Week for the third time where it showcased the latest of its m-services as part of its strategic drive toward comprehensive Mobile Government transformation. Awqaf is keen to adopt the most optimal technologies to better serve members of the community, both individuals and institutions.
Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, mentioned that Awqaf was developing smart services that meet the needs of the public and in integration with various government entities. He praised in this regard the unyielding support of the wise leadership to Awqaf projects and activities as well as their insightful directives to government institutions with the aim of promoting public services.
 "Through our participation (in Gitex) this year, we would like to highlight the efforts done by Awqaf via its IT department to upgrade its application on smart mobile phones, tablets and online. This year we have added two new m-services to enhance the users' experience and fulfill their needs.
"There is also a section that provides ample information about types of  Waqf and how to donate. These smart solutions allow using E-dirham or any other bank card for making donations," Dr al Mazrouei said.
Awqaf is a UAE leading institution promoting religious awareness according to principles of moderation and tolerance. Its responsibilities include, but are not limited to, building and maintaining mosques, Quranic centres, managing Haj and Umra affairs, investing in Waqf for the good of the community, among many aspects of Islamic affairs.
 To achieve its goals, Awqaf is using cutting edge technologies, especially applications on mobile phones and tablets, which allow to offer informative and procedural services that help simplify administrative procedures and reduce response time.
Up to now, Awqaf application boasts more than 200,000 uploads and updates since its first launch in 2012 and this year it received the 18thMiddle East eGov and eServices Excellence Award this year in the category of mobile applications.
 
 
 
 













