addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces received at Al Bahr Palace the newly graduated preachers from Mohammed V University - Agdal - Abu Dhabi. They were accompanied by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, and Prof Dr Farouk Hamada, the religious advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court.
HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed expressed his appreciation of their role in promoting the tolerant principles of Islam and its authentic values. He said that HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of UAE, may Allah protect him, is keen to support them and sponsor their religious programmes that serve Islam and society.
Addressing them, he said, "your role is very important in the country and is no less than other sciences and specialties.  Your mission is the basis for safeguarding the unity of society and its happiness," adding that counseling people about their religious and life matters as well as disseminating Islamic knowledge and tolerant goals are the foundation of stability in the community.
Then HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed congratulated the newly graduated preachers, from both levels: the bachelor and master, and wished them success in their career. It is worth mentioning that they were recruited by Awqaf.
For his part, Dr al Mazrouei said that  the new graduates, male and female, were the fruit of a continuous stewardship of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, who had supported the programme and provided every means to ensure its success. He added that the appointment of this qualified group of preachers will strengthen the mission of Awqaf.
On this occasion, the new graduates extended their gratitude to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed for his generous efforts in helping them pursue their studies and ultimately succeed. They also asserted their strong will to keep on on this path and further their knowledge in religious sciences.
The ceremony was also attended by HE Mohammed Ahmed al Mar, Speaker of the Federal National Council (FNC), HH Sheikh Tahnoon bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, the Representative of the Ruler in the Eastern Region, HH Sheikh Nahyan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Chairman of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation (ZCHF), HH Lieutenant General Sheikh Saif Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, HH Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Chairman of Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court, HH Sheikh Omar bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Chairman of the ZCHF's Board of Trustees, HH Sheikh, Khalid bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Chairman of Etihad Airways, HE Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Culture, Youth and Community Development, a host of Sheikhs, and HE Amal al Qubaisi, the FNC's Deputy Speaker.
 
 













