addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
[All] praise is [due] to Allah, who has sent down upon His Servant the Book and has not made therein any deviance. We thank Him as it pleases him. He offers to bring relief to those who obey Him and dissolve their distress.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things Mighty.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah and obey Him. Also be aware that he who makes piety his concern has certainly succeeded, for it is the cure at times of agony and well-being in ailment. Allah the Exalted says, "And whoever fears Allah - He will make for him a way out. And will provide for him from where he does not expect." (Attalaq: 2-3).
 Dear Believers,
Allah has created life to be changing and doomed. Its worries and pleasures are passing. The sensible is, therefore, he who engages himself in acts of obedience and seeks Allah's satisfaction. He is seen grateful to his Lord and taking on actions that are beneficial to him in this and the next life. He would also supplicate to Allah saying, "our Lord, give us in this world [that which is] good and in the Hereafter [that which is] good and protect us from the punishment of the Fire." (Al Baqara: 201).
If Allah blessed him, he is thankful and when he is submerged by life burdens, he remains patient. He seeks means to remove the causes of his grief, but in so doing he trusts in Allah. This is the example of the believer who considers life moderately the way Allah wants it. He the Almighty says in this regard, "but seek, through that which Allah has given you, the home of the Hereafter; and [yet], do not forget your share of the world. And do good as Allah has done good to you." (Al Qasas: 77).
Life cannot, by any means, be taken for granted. If it is joyful one day, it might not be so on the next. Allah the Almighty says, "and these days [of varying conditions] We alternate among the people." (Al Imran: 140). This highlights the fact that one's life is in an ever process of content and sorrow, gathering and departure, illness and wellness, comfort and privation. Allah the Exalted says, "for indeed, with hardship [will be] ease. Indeed, with hardship [will be] ease." (Asharh: 5-6).
Ignoring this fact, people may get down to fear, or worry about what they face and feel. They may also get depressed of what they bother them, be sad about what happened in the past and obsessed with misfortunes. Those are most likely to be less willing to undertake acts of worship. And this is the type of anxiety, which our Prophet pbuh prohibited as he said, "O Allah, I seek refuge with You from worry and grief, from incapacity and laziness."
 Let us then seek refuge with Allah the Exalted from all of our anxieties, whether small or big. May Allah remove anguish and sorrow from those afflicted, You are the most generous and the most compassionate.
Dear Servants of Allah,
In all situations of ill-feelings, Muslims must return to Allah and remain steadfast. In no way should they give out. They must face misfortunes assertively and with strong will as did the pious, mostly the leader of the Messengers and patients: our Prophet Muhammad pbuh. He said in this regard, "know that in patience towards what you dislike there is a lot of good for you, and that victory comes with patience, relief with affliction, and ease with hardship."
If you are in grief, do not hesitate to turn to Allah and accept your misfortune. This way you will increase your good deeds, remove your sins and raise your status in the sight of Allah. Our Prophet pbuh said, "never a believer is stricken with discomfort, hardship or illness, grief or even with mental worry that his sins are not expiated for him."
Allah has called on us to pray to Him for He Who removes worries and brings relief. He the Almighty says, "is He [not best] who responds to the desperate one when he calls upon Him and removes evil and makes you inheritors of the earth? Is there a deity with Allah? Little do you remember." (Annaml:62). For this we need to seek the permissible means, trust in Allah first and foremost and find someone who can help us through our sufferings. Please bear in mind that Allah by His grace may bless us with people who will be the cause for alleviating the source of our discomfort.
Dear Muslims,
Please be keen to please your Lord and do not make this world your biggest concern. Rather look forward to the Hereafter as our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever is focused only on this world, Allah will confound his affairs and make him fear poverty constantly, and he will not get anything of this world except that which has been decreed for him. Whoever is focused on the Hereafter, Allah will settle his affairs for him and make him feel content with his lost, and his provision and worldly gains will undoubtedly come to him."
Surely the happiest amongst people are those who prefer the next life and give up the worries of this vanishing one. Thus, they have focused on doing good deeds in this life and made themselves ready for the Hereafter. Allah the Exalted says, "but whoever desires the Hereafter and exerts the effort due to it while he is a believer - it is those whose effort is ever appreciated [by Allah]." (al Israa: 19).
Congratulations to those who fully recognise what Allah desires, have faith in Him and take actions according to His instructions. Those will get what is desirable and avoid that which is harmful.
O Servants of Allah, focus on everything that will satisfy Allah the Almighty, whether in matters related to you personally, your family, studies, work, business, and your speech and acts. This is in order to gain your goals in this life and the next.
Dear Believers,
Our Prophet pbuh was concerned with pleasing Allah the Almighty and for that he actively spread His Message to all people and was keen to counsel them on how to benefit from the advantages of this life and the next. Allah says, "there has certainly come to you a Messenger from among yourselves. Grievous to him is what you suffer; [he is] concerned over you and to the believers is kind and merciful." (Attawba: 128).
Out of his compassion he would turn sad at the sight of those who were reluctant to believe. And Allah addressed him saying, "perhaps, [O Muhammad], you would kill yourself with grief that they will not be believers." (Ashuaraa: 3). This Aya describes how deeply sad was the Prophet over the non-believers [and their likely fate]. It called on him not, however, and focused instead on guiding them to Allah's Message. Therefore, whoever is guided-it is for the benefit of his soul; and whoever goes astray only goes astray to its detriment.
These are noble concerns by the Prophet pbuh who did not pass away until he had spread the Message, undertaken his mission, educated men, achieved hopes, established justice, brought people's hearts together and  perfect honourable morals.
Indeed Allah the Almighty has spoken the truth of His Messenger when He said, "and We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds." (Al Anbiyaa: 107).
With this in mind, we ask Allah's grace to be among those whose sole concern is His satisfaction and nothing else.
May Allah help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty whether in secret or in public and know that UAE has been established and united and  this was the main concern of its Founders. Now, as you can see, it has become an oasis of stability and peace where everyone is living in tranquility, comfort, prosperity and happiness.
Our leadership still have the same concern and do care first and foremost about the welfare of UAE citizens and residents. Thanks to their devotion, they have made UAE people the happiest and most prosperous. May Allah bless our leaders and reward them for all the good things they have done for us. In recognition of their noble actions, we are obliged to them and we must remain loyal to our wise leaders and generous nation.
We need also to safeguard its acquisitions and enrich it with life and civilisation. Therefore, each one of us has to set a goal to be concerned with and with which to benefit others. May Allah grant everybody reward and bless their efforts with success.
Allah the Exalted says, "whoever does righteousness, whether male or female, while he is a believer - We will surely cause him to live a good life, and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according to the best of what they used to do." (Annahl: 97).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 
 













