addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme Council, Ruler of Ajman opened this week the Armed Forces Martyrs Mosque, located in the Mushairaf Commercial area in Ajman.
On the occasion, HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi praised the special support to mosques from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
HH Sheikh Al Nuaimi also expressed his appreciation of Awqaf's efforts in maintaining mosques.
The ceremony was attended by HH Sheikh Ahmed bin Humaid Al Nuaimi, the Ruler's Representative for Financial and Administrative Affairs, HH Sheikh Rashid bin Humaid Al Nuaimi, Chairman of Municipality and Planning, Lt General Hamad Mohammed Thani Al Rumaithi, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Director General, several directors of government departments, Mr Obeid Hamad al Zaabi, Director of Awqaf's branch in Ajman, directors of Awqaf branches, a number of dignitaries, in addition to officials and host of worshippers.
In a speech, Dr al Mazrouei commended the unyielding support to Ajman mosques from HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi, and highlighted the great initiative between the UAE Armed Forces and Awqaf to have in each Emirate a mosque by the name of Armed Forces Martyrs. The move aims to acknowledge the service this segment of society had given to the nation and its acquisitions.
The new mosque was built as part of the Mafhas Al Qattah programme launched by Awqaf, which encourages members of the community to donate. Currently Awqaf is building 15 mosques across the Emirates benefitting from donations made by philanthropists to this charity work.
Dr al Mazrouei added that Awqaf was always keen to build mosques according to Islamic architecture designs that are environment-friendly and fit them with the latest sound systems and finest carpets. He explained that the construction of mosques and the provision of equipment took into consideration the needs of the elderly and disabled, hence translating the interest of the wise leadership to provide places of worship with the highest international standards of quality and safety.
The Armed Forces Martyrs Mosque in Ajman is an addition of a kind to the Emirate mosques as new techniques were employed, said Dr al Mazrouei, adding that it was built following a modern style of architecture that reflects a touch of elegance as shown in its minaret. The main prayer hall is an open space without columns in between, which help increase the capacity of the mosque and gives a comfortable feeling for worshippers as rows do not happen to split.
Special care is also given to construction materials used as well as the rational use of water in the ablution area. The mosque occupies 1260 sqm and can accommodate 850 worshippers. It has also a prayer room for women and accommodations for Imam and Muezzin.
On another note, HE Mr Hamad bin Ghlitha, the Personal Secretary of Ajman Ruler, threw a banquet in honour of Awqaf delegation. It was attended by Dr al Mazrouei, Dr al Kaabi, Mr al Zaabi, director of Ajman branch, directors of awqaf branches, in addition to directors of federal and local departments and a host of officials and dignitaries.
 
 













