addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Patron, the All Praiseworthy. He creates what He wills and ordains what He intends. He Who withholds and grants abundance. He tests people and appeases their sufferings.
We thank him at good times and bad, and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. He has control over us and His Judgment is executed on us.  He is the Most Just Judges and the Most Merciful.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do construct our lives in accordance to what He has ordered us as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah . And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr:18).
Dear Muslims,
The land of Sham (the Levant) has a special place in the hearts of Muslims. As well as blessed in the holy Quran, it was also honoured by the visit of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh, for which he prayed: "O Allah! Bestow Your blessings on our Sham!" Truly it was blessed as the angels spread their wings over it and had thousands of honourable Companions lived there. The latter disseminated love and noble values amongst a community who adored them.
Al Waleed bin Muslim reported that ten thousand persons, who had seen the prophet pbuh, came to Sham and agreed to treat the place with kindness. And so they did and ensured human dignity. Moreover, it was reported that they scattered grains on the top of mountains so as no one would say a bird remained hungry in the land of Muslims. Thus Sham became the beacon of the Islamic civilisation and from its shores shone the light that had reached out to humanity. 
Dear Servants of Allah,
It is deeply hurting to see what is happening to people of Syria today; they are in distress and ripped off by calamities. Millions of Syrians ended up homeless and displaced, forced to endure hard times and tragic humanitarian conditions. For how many families were dislocated? How many women turned widows?  How many kids became orphans? And how many mothers shocked at the loss of their beloved children?
Their plight has become even tougher as the cold snap with severe snowstorm takes a toll on them, claiming lives of women and children, and from which men and the elderly have also suffered. Given this situation, every able Muslim has the obligation to offer help as our Prophet pbuh said, "A Muslim is a Muslim's brother: he does not wrong him or abandon him." That is, one must not let someone else face his misfortune alone, rather he needs to comfort him and bring help as much as he can.
Dear Muslims,
O who have believed in Allah as God, in Islam as religion and Muhammad pbuh as Prophet and Messenger, behold the pictures that come to you and the news that you hear, all of them telling you about the dire situation of Syrians and the sufferings they are going through. This is a call for you not to abandon them or let them face this horrible calamity by their own.
Please consider the situation of a Syrian child who shivered from the deadly chill and imagine if he was your spoiled son or daughter. How would you feel about it if you saw him or her when blood had been frozen in their veins and the cold had extinguished the glow of their skins? As their lips turned bluish, their eyes teared up and their hand trembled, they would plead you saying, "Please dad wrap my exposed body, the cold is killing me."
Helplessly you would look around left and right for a shelter. Meanwhile, they would desperately look at you depending on you to save them. As you stared at them while they neared death, were you going to act and rescue them or let them face their harsh fate and perish?
O Servants of Allah, again just imagine for a second that the woman from the refugee camp appearing on television was a relative of yours. How would you react when you hear her screams, addressing you: "please protect my integrity and save me from the scourge of cold and hunger." Could you also think of the situation of an old person, who had nobody to feed him or care for him? You may see him calling for his son to provide him with medicine for his ailment, a bite to quench his hunger and a cloth to cover his unprotected body.
Dear Believers, if you have not learned about what our Prophet pbuh said about this, here is a reminder of his Hadith. Narrated in Muslim, he said, "whoever removes a worldly grief from a believer, Allah will remove from him one of the griefs of the Day of Resurrection. And whoever alleviates the need of a needy person, Allah will alleviate his needs in this world and the Hereafter. Whoever shields [or hides the misdeeds of] a Muslim, Allah will shield him in this world and the Hereafter. And Allah will aid His slave so long as he aids his brother."
Therefore, please assist those afflicted and Allah will assist you. Think of the fact they are away from their own homes and help bring relief to them so may Allah remove your own distress.
Dear Believers,
Allah the Almighty has tested them with "something of fear and hunger and a loss of wealth and lives and fruits, but give good tidings to the patient." (Al Baqara: 155). He the most Exalted has bestowed upon you generous provision to thank Him. He also opens the door for you to engage in beneficial acts and increase your good deeds. This is an opportunity for you; please seize it and be generous to people of Syria by meeting their needs and know that anyone who helps the poor and feed the hungry will enjoy high status in the sight of Allah and have his deeds standing by him on the Day of Judgment.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "verily, Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, would say on the Day of Resurrection, 'O son of Adam, I asked food from you but you did not feed Me.' He would say, 'my Lord, how could I feed You whereas You are the Lord of the worlds?' He said, 'didn't you know that such and such servant of Mine asked food from you but you did not feed him, and were you not aware that if you had fed him you would have found that with Me?'
The Lord would again say, 'O son of Adam, I asked drink from you but you did not provide Me.' He would say 'my Lord, how could I provide You whereas You are the Lord of the worlds?' Thereupon He would say, 'such and such of servant of Mine asked you for a drink but you did not provide him, and had you provided him drink you would have found that with Me'."
Indeed, the reward of your contributions and good deeds is with Allah. So if you spend seeking Allah's satisfaction, He the most Generous may recompense you even more. You are going to reap the result of your good deeds in this life by seeing your wealth blessed and as reward on the Day of Judgment. Allah says, "who is it that would loan Allah a goodly loan so He may multiply it for him many times over? And it is Allah who withholds and grants abundance, and to Him you will be returned." (Al Baqara: 245).
Dear Believers,
Our Master Muhammad pbuh urged us to donate to people in need. It was reported that some desert Arabs came to Allah's Messenger pbuh. He saw them in sad plight as they had been hard pressed by need. He pbuh exhorted people to give charity. Then one after the other give money until signs of happiness could be seen on his face as a sign he was satisfied with his Companions' response to his call for helping the afflicted people.
May Allah bring relief to Syrians, fulfill their needs, quench their hunger, provide them with shelter and assist them through their plight. May Allah also help us to stand by them.
May Allah help us to obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty whether in secret or in public and know that your Lord has prepared for the righteous a garden as wide as the heavens and earth. In it there is what no one has ever seen, heard, or thought of. You can obtain it by giving food to the hungry, a drink to the thirsty and clothes to warm someone's body. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "there is a reward for serving any animate (living being)."
Today calamity befalls Syrians and you have the means to help them with food, clothes and medicines. Please hasten to rescue them by answering to their call, and know that there is no excuse before Allah for the able amongst you not to give. However, those who cannot, the least you can do is to pray for them. 
This blessed country and its people are always quick to respond, giving help to the afflicted and care for the orphans and the deprived. And here today its President and leader, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, is ordering a humanitarian relief initiative to support Syrians. May Allah grant him the best reward for this charitable move and for setting a formidable example of what our religion has urged us to do.
Accordingly, the UAE Red Crescent Authority (RCA) has launched the "Our Hearts with the People of Syria" campaign, which opens the door for the public to donate in various ways. Delegations were also sent to determine the conditions of people onsite and identify their needs as well as provide access routes for aids.
RCA is an accredited official authority with a record of bright achievements in the field of humanitarian relief work. Its personnel work actively day and night, in secret and in public, seeking Allah's satisfaction.
O Servants of Allah, this is your opportunity to spend in charity, so may Allah increase your reward, bless you and admit you by His Grace to Paradise. He the Almighty says, "believe in Allah and His Messenger and spend out of that in which He has made you successors. For those who have believed among you and spent, there will be a great reward." (Al Hadid: 7).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we seek your favour to ease the distress of people of Syria, grant them abundant provision, help us to assist them and accept our deeds. O Allah, we also pray to you to dissolve the grief of people in hardship and have mercy on the sick and the needy.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, a scared unprotected, a hungry unfed,  an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: English translation of the Quran verses and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.













