addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, has issued Cabinet Decree no 30 of 2013 pertaining to Haj and Umra enterprise. According to the ministerial decision, no individual, whether natural or legal, can undertake Haj and Umra enterprise without license from Awqaf.
To regulate the operators' activities, the decree invests Awqaf with the privileges of receiving license applications and waivers, setting time for submitting the bank guarantee from the operators, preparing and approving licensing  and contract forms, receiving data, laying down the terms and conditions related to the pilgrimage campaign administrative staff, and issuing pilgrims' identity cards.
Haj and Umra regulation fees
Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid has also issued Decree no 31 of 2013 detailing fees related to Haj and Umra enterprise that have to be collected in return for services provided by Awqaf.
Fees for licensing are determined at AED 20,000; for renewal at 10,000, and for replacement at 500.
Other fees consist of 10,000 for opening and licensing a campaign branch; 5,000 for renewal; 10,000 for waiver to a third party; 10,000 for modifying data; 1,000 for cancelling a license; 10,000 for accrediting an agent acting on behalf of the operator or its owner during Haj, and 500 for replacement.
The fees shall be collected through channels to be decided by the Ministry of Finance. Meanwhile, Awqaf Board of directors shall issue the necessary decisions for implementing the provisions of this decree.
On another level, the Decree relative to Haj and Umra enterprise also specifies the following:
Licensing committee
To this effect, a committee at Awqaf will be formed by a decision from its chairman. It will look into matters related to applications submitted by operators, issue and renew licenses, determine the number of pilgrims assigned to each campaign, impose fines on operators which violate the regulations, and carry out other assignments from the Board.
Inspecting accommodations in the Holy Sites
To be set up by a decision by Awqaf chairman, a special committee will verify the quality of pilgrims' accommodations in the Holy Sites during Haj.
Four-star hotels and above as well as buildings approved by Awqaf less than a year and which have no alteration made thereto do not need to be inspected. Still they need to have housing permit from the competent authority issued in the same year.
Requirements relative to License applicant
Applicants must be UAE nationals aged between 25 years and 65, of good conduct, have a minimum qualification of high school diploma-except for those who have obtained the license before the implementation of the present Decree-, and of no previous conviction by imprisonment following a felony or a misdemeanour, involving moral turpitude or trust, save if they have been rehabilitated and pardoned by the competent authorities. They must also not be employees of Awqaf or local authorities concerned with Islamic affairs and endowments.
Duration of license and bank guarantee 
The license is valid for one year and is renewable. Each licensed operator shall deposit one million dirham for the pilgrimage season within the deadline as shall be decided by Awqaf. Half of the deposit will be paid against a guarantee letter from one of the accredited banks by the name of Awqaf with no strings attached, while the rest of the guarantee will be provided against a check by the name of the campaign or its owner. The guarantee can be cashed at the request of Awqaf without the approval of the Campaign or its owner.
Upon a request by the operator and approval of Haj and Umra Department at Awqaf, the number of authorised pilgrims can be increased. In this case, the Licensing Committee can impose extra guarantees based on every single addition, yet this must not be less than 50 per cent of the value of the pilgrim's service contract.
The campaign's requirements outside UAE
Operators are responsible for housing, equipment, transport and other related matters.  The campaign owner must be in the Saudi Arabia to coordinate with the authorities and the UAE pilgrim's office and be also in the Holy Sites during the pilgrims' stay as well as when the inspection committee is verifying accommodations.
The campaign's requirements during Haj season
Operators have to appoint authorised preachers from Awqaf only. No one, under any circumstances, is entitled to offer preaching, guidance, lectures, fatwa, or distributing leaflets and publications unless otherwise the latter are authorised by Awqaf. The campaign's owner shall be responsible towards any of the competent authorities whether inside or outside the country. He must also segregate Male and female pilgrims, except for Mahram (an unmarriageable kin bonded by blood or law), and he and his campaign must not leave the Saudi Arabia until obtaining a permission from the UAE pilgrims' office there.
Other requirements include health matters, land and air transport, housing and services in the Holy Sites during performance of rites in addition to other obligations Awqaf may decide in this regard.
Operators cannot transfer pilgrims between them without obtaining a formal consent from pilgrims, UAE pilgrims' affairs office or the campaigns transferred to. 
A service contract must be signed between pilgrims and operators and any violation of this term is liable to sanctions as prescribed in this regard.
Ban on Haj campaign advertising
Unless authorised by Awqaf, it is illegal for any natural or legal person from inside or outside UAE to advertise for the campaign in UAE through any media outlet, including electronic, print, audiovisual, posters, brochures, leaflets, among others. In this regard, operators shall respect the regulations and instructions issued by Awqaf, the UAE pilgrim's office, other competent authorities in UAE and Saudi Arabia.
The decree also lays down the administrative sanctions in a separate appendix against campaigns which violate its provisions.
 













