addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf board of directors have expressed their utmost appreciation for the unyielding support from the UAE wise leadership to Awqaf, which contribute to achieving its goals and improving the services it provides to the public.
The chairman and members of the Board conveyed also their sincere gratitude to HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, who has generously offered to cover all the expenses of the official Haj delegation this year.
Thanks to his kind move, the delegation succeeded in fulfilling its mission and providing services to pilgrims in professional manner and according to the leadership goals. This benefitted pilgrims and helped them perform their rites comfortably. The delegation remains always aware of the keen interest of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, in pilgrims as well as the delegation's requirements and the need to satisfy them in time.
This came during the sixth meeting of Awqaf board this year held at Awqaf headquarters in Abu Dhabi under the presidency of HE Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, who reviewed the official Haj delegation final report submitted by its head, Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei.
For his part, Mr Mohammed al Mazrouei praised the delegation's achievements this year, saying it has become an example of good organisation and planning for its counterparts in other countries.
Then the board discussed the results of the last meeting minutes and the present agenda, including the Waqf estimated budget for 2014, the human resources code no 15 of 2013 pertaining to independent government entities, which had been approved by the Cabinet. They also distributed duties related to appointments, transfer and assignment of experts, consultants and technicians among members of the board, the chairman, the director general and branch directors.
During the meeting, the board approved systems of compensation for overtime, employee performance management as well as that of job classification and payroll and salaries. They also approved a monthly bonus of AED 10,000 for every Emirati preacher for respecting the preaching plan set by Awqaf.
On another level, they agreed on building a mosque at Al Jazeera Club as part of the charitable programme: Mafhas al Qattah and took decisions regarding many other matters.
On the occasion of the 42th anniversary of the UAE Union, the Board members presented their warm greetings to UAE leaders and highlighted the achievements of the nation and the celebrations of Emiratis and residents on this much appraised national occasion.
 













