addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, Who has created us from clay and then decreed a term. He Who created death and life to test us as to which of us is the best in deed. I thank Him the way it pleases Him and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers.
He the Almighty swore by day and night, set each one's lifetime and He is the most honourable, the much-forgiving.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and  Messenger; through him Allah the Almighty has guided us towards peace. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah and do act and behave as it pleases Him for He says, "and take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al Baqara: 197).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has made the alternation of night and day a sign of His absolute Might and perfect Arrangement and Will. He the most Exalted says, "and it is He who has made the night and the day in succession for whoever desires to remember or desires gratitude." (Al Furqan: 62).
To ponder on this issue, one should remember that a lifetime is destined to end and that is but a matter of decreed days. Thus he should benefit from his time to do good things that raise his status, and prepares himself to the Hereafter.
In this sense, time is important, a fact highlighted when Allah the most Exalted takes oath on it, when He says, "by time, indeed, mankind is in loss, Except for those who have believed and done righteous deeds and advised each other to truth and advised each other to patience." (Asr).
Time is depicted here as having deeper and far more comprehensive meaning. As well as referring to the time per se, a line of unlimited scope, it also covers the time related to one's age, or as it is known as lifetime. The latter is by nature is limited, brief and fleeting. Accordingly, each moment that passes, it in fact reduces one's life and brings him nearer to term. A poet said, "Days and days we do happily live, whilst every bit of instance passes heads us towards the end."
The sensible man is, therefore, he who takes advantage of time available to him to assess himself, do good, keep away from sins, think of his death, obey Allah the Almighty by avoiding prohibitions and complying with His orders. He will also busy himself with beneficial matters and determine what he needs in life, hence propagating good deeds, pleasing Allah, and building his country. The outcome of his actions shall definitely profit his nation, his family and community.
Truly, this is the kind of wise and discerning believer, who was referred to by our Prophet pbuh when he said, "The wise man is the one who takes account of himself and strives for that which is after death. And the helpless man is the one who follows his own whims then indulges in wishful thinking about Allah." But self analysis is only worthy during one's lifetime before being subjected to the judgment on the Last Day.
The oblivious and the loser is he who wastes his time, lacks determination and turns to hopes instead of work until death surprises him. Look at how many people (in this world) who start their day but never live to finish it. And how many others who look forward to the next day, but never make it.
Allah the most Exalted says, "but never will Allah delay a soul when its time has come. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Munafiqun: 11).
O servants of Allah, bear in mind that your lifetime is short and distractions are many. Please know also that you will be asked before Allah about your life whether your deeds were good or bad; whether you had invested your time in a way beneficial to you in the everlasting Hereafter, or simply you squander it in vain pursuits. 
In this regard, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Man's feet will not move on the Day of Resurrection before he is asked about his life, how did he consume it, his knowledge, what did he do with it, his wealth, how did he earn it and how did he dispose of it, and about his body, how did he wear it out."
So be accountable of yourself and always bear in mind that Allah is watching over you and is all Knowledgeable. Take some time and review yourself and your relation with Allah the Almighty in order to get closer to Him with good deeds.
Also plan how you will benefit of your lifetime and ask yourself: what do I really need? Am I on the right path? Did I do what pleases Allah? Is it written on my deed record that which will, by grace of Allah, grant me Paradise on the Day of Judgment?
It was reported that the day and night are like lockers, and that you are required to think over what you need to put in them. So if you have missed doing some good work at night, you have the day to make up for that and vice versa. Hence Allah the most Generous will continue to stretch out His hand in the night so that the sinners of the day may repent, and continue to stretch His Hands in the daytime so that the sinners of the night may repent.
The Prophet pbuh said, "If a man prays in the night and sleep overcomes him during it, Allah writes for him the reward of his prayer, and his sleep is a Sadaqa for him."
Dear Muslims,
Common sense tells us that out of 24 hours that make up the day, we spend approximately eight in sleeping, four in eating and drinking, one in commuting, one in observing prayers, one in leisure and another in communication and relating with others, plus eight in work.
And if you have turned sixty, you could have spent forty years between sleep and work, ten years in eating and drinking, ten years between prayer, both obligatory and optional, leisure, communication and commuting.
It is odd to live all those years without making use of them in acts benefitting you in this world and next life. And you are always urged to devote yourself to worshipping Allah, and commit to good deeds.
The Prophet pbuh was said, "O Messenger of Allah! Which of the people is the best?" He said: "He whose life is long and his deeds are good." He said: "Then which of the people is the worst?" He said: "He whose life is long and his deeds are bad."
Your work can be perfect by having the genuine intention to worship Allah. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "actions are but by intentions, and each person will have but that which he intended."
Thus when you go to bed, express intention by saying: "with Your name my Lord, I lay myself down; and with Your name I rise. And if my soul You take, have mercy on it, and if You send it back then protect it as You protect Your righteous servants."
When you wake up you say, "all praise to Allah, who gave us life after having given us death and to him is our final return."
Before you eat or drink say bismillah (with your name). Eat with your right hand and eat of the dish what is nearer to you. When satisfied, say "praise be to Allah who has fed me with this food and provide me with it through no might and power on my part."
When you put on a garment, say, "praise be to Allah Who has clothed me with this and provided me with it through no might and power on my part."
When you get on your car, say, "glory be to Him Who has made subservient to us, for we had not the strength for it, and to our Lord do we return."
Last but not least, when you go to work let it be for the sake of Allah the Almighty. Work diligently and serve your nation and community in the best possible way, so may Allah the Almighty fulfill your needs. Our Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "if anyone cares for his brother's needs, Allah will care for his need."
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to bless our lives and help us perform our work as it pleases Him. May Allah also help us obey him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah sincerely and be aware that there is a lesson to learn from the non-permanent character of time. Days and years pass, so do your lifetime. Your bodies wear out as well. You are urged therefore to benefit from whatever time you may yet avail to compensate for what you have missed.
Truly blessed are those who take themselves accountable of their past and decide to increase good work before death claims them suddenly. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "every person starts his day as a vendor of his soul, either freeing it or causing its ruin."
Dear Parents, be keen to raise your children nicely, direct them and care for them. Be for them the good example and set time to sit with them to know their needs, share their ambitions, correct their behaviour and nurture in them the most noble values and morals.
Dear Students, make the best of your time in your pursuit of success, and be keen to be among those outstanding talented persons. 
Dear Employees perform your duties attentively, and plan to develop your skills and competencies in order to maintain the nation's achievements and acquisitions. In so doing, you contribute to its progress and show you are grateful to Allah for the stability and prosperity He has conferred upon the country. Indeed, this country is so generous it has been kind and abundantly giving to people. As such you are required to treat it likewise as Allah the most Exalted says, "is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Arrahman: 60).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
May Allah bless our days and lives and make them for your obedience and satisfaction.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah, Show us the essence of truth and grant us the will to follow it. May Allah also mend our intentions, grant that our spouses and our offspring be a joy to our eyes and make success be an ally to us. O Allah, we seek Your favour to raise our status, increase our good deeds, remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
 













