addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the heavens and the earth and all between them; upon Him the desperate call, to Him turn those who seek repentance and upon Him [alone] rely the [wise] reliers.
Our Lord, to You is all praise, abundant, beautiful and blessed whenever those engaged in Your remembrance remember You and whenever those who are negligent of Your remembrance are in their neglect.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers, to Him will be returned the matter, all of it. Whoever relies upon Allah-then He is sufficient for him. And whoever trusts in him shall survive, and whoever fears Allah - He will make for him a way out.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He was the best among [humans] who relied in Allah and obey Him, and guided us to the most trustworthy handhold. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be ever conscious of Allah, for it being His order to the former and later peoples. He the Almighty says, "and We have instructed those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah." (Annisaa: 131).
Dear Muslims,
The universe is run as determined by Allah Who says, "unquestionably, His is the creation and the command; blessed is Allah, Lord of the worlds." (Al Araf: 54). He arranges each matter related to His creation and nothing on earth or in heavens shall cause Him failure. He is the source of all provisions as He says, "and there is not a thing but that with Us are its depositories." (Al Hijr: 21).
Indeed His bounties are countless and can never be depleted. In a Qudsi Hadith, our Prophet pbuh said, "O My servants, were the first of you and the last of you, the human of you and the jinn of you to rise up in one place and make a request of Me, and were I to give everyone what he requested, that would not decrease what I have, any more that a needle decreases the sea if put into it."
Bearing this to mind, all that you need, dear believers, is seeking Allah's help alone, relying positively upon Him and returning to Him in all matters. He the Most Exalted says, "and to Allah belong the unseen [aspects] of the heavens and the earth and to Him will be returned the matter, all of it, so worship Him and rely upon Him." (Hud: 123). That is, Allah the most Generous will assist whoever trust in him and turn to Him for help, for He says, "is not Allah sufficient for His Servant [Prophet Muhammad]?" (Azzumar: 36).
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that trust in Allah is a great blessing that opens wide doors for mercy and hope and protects against despair and indolence. It offers a drive for Muslims to rely positively on their Creator and dedicate themselves to work, accepting destiny, praying to him and seeking his assistance alone. In fact, this devotion is shown daily in every Salat when worshippers recite: "it is You we worship and You we ask for help." (Al Fatiha: 5). That is, from You (Allah the Almighty) alone we seek help in all aspects of our lives.
This implies that people, who trust in Allah, must also submit to Him in all matters as He says, "and I entrust my affair to Allah. Indeed, Allah is Seeing of [His] servants." (Ghafir: 44).
Moreover, having faith in Allah requires of every Muslim to think well of Him. It was reported that Wathila Ibn al Asqaa came to visit Ali Yazid Ibn al Aswad, who was sick. He asked him, "how do you think of Allah?" He said, "By Allah I think well of Him." Upon that he (Wathila) said, "cheer up then for I heard the Messenger of Allah pbuh saying, 'Allah says: I am just as My servant believes me to be. If he thought well of me, it will be his, and he thought bad of me, it would be his.'." You are urged, therefore, to think well of Allah and trust in Him, whether in good or bad times.
Dear Believers,
It is certainly true that confidence in Allah was one of the qualities of Prophets and Messengers as well as that of righteous people. Prophet Ibrahim pbuh set a formidable example of someone who accepted what Allah had decreed, "when his Lord said to him, "Submit", he said "I have submitted [in Islam] to the Lord of the worlds." (Al Baqara: 131). He was assigned the site of the House by Allah, so he took his wife Hajar and their infant and set off to a journey to a desert land in an unplanted valley.
It was narrated in Sahih Al Bukhari that during those days there was nobody in Mecca, nor was there any water. So he made them sit over there and placed near them a leather bag containing some dates, and a small water-skin containing some water, and set out homeward. Ismael's mother followed him saying, "O Ibrahim! Where are you going, leaving us in this valley where there is no person whose company we may enjoy, nor is there anything (to enjoy)?" She repeated that to him many times, but he did not look back at her. Then she asked him, "has Allah ordered you to do so?" He said, "Yes." She said, "then He will not neglect us."
What a sincere sense of trust-as deeply-rooted as mountains- that let Ismael's mother to accept Allah's orders willingly. Moreover, it never came to her thoughts that Zamzam water would spring up from under her son's feet to drink from it and that Allah would send down an angel who said to her: "don't be afraid of being neglected, for this is the House of Allah which will be built by this boy and his father, and Allah never neglects His people."
O Glorious is Allah! Days and years passed during which Ibrahim along with his son Ismael (peace be upon them) were raising the foundations of the House in Mecca to become the first House [of worship] established for mankind- blessed and a guidance for the worlds. Over the years, it has also become a place to which millions direct their hearts and embark on pilgrimage.
Another example was Maryam- an epitome of morality and chastity- when she endured her plight after she came pregnant without having had a married relationship. This happened out of a Divine miracle. She was worried of her folk accusing her of false charges, but she replaced her concerns with faith in Allah as He revealed to her: "so eat and drink and be contented. And if you see from among humanity anyone, say, 'Indeed, I have vowed to the Most Merciful abstention, so I will not speak today to [any] man.' O sister of Aaron, your father was not a man of evil, nor was your mother unchaste. So she pointed to him." (Maryam: 26-29).
Confident in Allah, she pointed to her child without knowing at that instant that her Lord would cause her child to speak and prove her innocence.  Allah says, "They said, 'How can we speak to one who is in the cradle a child?' He [Issa] said, 'Indeed, I am the servant of Allah. He has given me the Scripture and made me a prophet. And He has made me blessed wherever I am and has enjoined upon me prayer and Zakah as long as I remain alive and [made me] dutiful to my mother, and He has not made me a wretched tyrant. And peace is on me the day I was born and the day I will die and the day I am raised alive." (Maryam: 29-33).
Dear Believers,
Please know that besides trusting in Allah, you need also to believe in what He says and act according to the holy Quran and the guidance of our Master Muhammad pbuh. So if you commit any wrongdoings seek forgiveness while thinking positively of the Aya saying, "and it is He who accepts repentance from his servants and pardons misdeeds." (Ash-Shura: 25). And if you are in grief or hardship be confident in Allah and look into the example of the Prophet Yunus pbuh.
About him, Allah says, "and [mention] the man of the fish, when he went off in anger and thought that We would not decree [anything] upon him. And he called out within the darknesses, 'There is no deity except You; exalted are You. Indeed, I have been of the wrongdoers.' So We responded to him and saved him from the distress. And thus do We save the believers." (Al Anbiyaa: 87-88).
With this in mind we seek Allah's grace to make us amongst those who believe and trust in Him. May Allah also help us obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah sincerely and be aware that trust in Allah implies depending wisely on Him, believing in what He has and working following His orders and permissions.
From this perspective, our wise leadership has set a good example of how to trust in Allah as the Founder of this nation expressed it in most of his speeches. Despite the immense challenges like scarcity of water and other resources, he transformed the desert into green oases, and enriched it with life and civilisation thanks to his confidence in Allah and perseverance. Thus he built roads, schools, hospitals and offered the best services. His efforts have yielded beneficial fruits, making of UAE a haven of peace and stability and a hub for talents. Its people live in prosperity and this has also benefited others farther afield.
Let us always be confident in Allah, be willing to contribute to the stability of our country and work in synergy with our leaders.
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah if we wronged ourselves, our trust in Your forgiveness shall be a saviour for us, and if we failed in work, our confidence that You grant us success in what pleases You shall be a reason for us to turn to You and increase our acts of worship.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to perform good work and give up misdeeds. O Allah, make Iman (faith) beloved to us and beautify it in our hearts, and make us hate disbelief, immorality and disobedience. O Allah, I seek from You guidance, virtue, purification of the soul and being self-sufficient.
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













