addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Mohammed V-Agdal-Abu Dhabi University's board of trustees has held its first meeting, which looked into many internal matters and took decisions related thereto. The meeting was presided over by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of the board.
First Dr al Kaabi welcomed the new members and highlighted the distinguished relations between HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the United Arab Emirates, and his brother HM Mohammed VI, King of Morocco, which resulted in building many strategic partnerships at various levels. This includes academic and cultural exchange programmes,  an example of which is launching a branch of this well-established University that aims at training elite Emirati scholars in Islamic studies, said Dr al Kaabi.
"This project has received a special support from HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, who expressed his appreciation when he received the first group of Emiratis graduating from this university. Awqaf also celebrated their graduation and appointed them in preaching and research positions.
"All of this is the ultimate outcomes of the efforts of the two leaders, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan and King Hassan II, may Allah rest their soul in peace. They laid the foundations of this relation and forged strong bridges between the two peoples," he said.
For their part, the board members praised the wisdom of the leadership in both countries and their keen interest in knitting strategic partnerships. They also highlighted the much appraised trust they received from HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed, and pledged to work towards achieving the ultimate goals of this prestigious University, which is regarded by the leadership as one of the tools to ensure academic training and advancement of UAE citizens. They also thanked Abu Dhabi Education Council's director general for his great interest in the University.
Among the decisions taken were approving the board's structure, bylaws and budget for this year, the hiring process of directors, financial and human resources policies. They also discussed and approved the formation of technical and scientific committees, faculty members' policies, academic accreditation, and introducing IT network structure as well as laying down the university strategy for the coming years.
As for student affairs, the internal regulations and admissions for undergraduate and postgraduate studies, including PhD programmes, were discussed and drawn. The new decisions are expected to benefit the Master degree holders, who graduated last year, for they will open wide doors for them to pursue their academic career further.
 













