addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the worlds. His mercy is over all His  works. He conveyed the last of His Messages through His Messenger  Muhammad pbuh, the Seal of the Prophets. We also thank Him for  granting  us much of provision and countless of blessings.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for  Allah, having no Associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens  and the earth, and He is over all things Mighty.
I also bear witness that Muhammad pbuh is His Servant and Messenger.  He is raised to the honoured station, promised with the Frequented Basin  and granted the ultimate intercession. May the peace and the blessings  of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them  in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah and obey Him, just as He says, "O  you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will  [then] give you a double portion of His mercy and make for you a light  by which you will walk and forgive you; and Allah is Forgiving and  Merciful." (Al Hadid: 28).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the most Exalted has created humans and preferred them over  many of His Creation. He the almighty also granted them special  potentials and characteristics and sent prophets and messengers to show  them the right path. This is described in the Aya saying, "[We sent]  messengers as bringers of good tidings and warners so that mankind will  have no argument against Allah after the messengers. And ever is Allah  Exalted in Might and Wise." (Annisaa: 165).
With this mission in mind, Allah's messengers set the ground for  people's doctrine and morality, refined their behaviours, developed  their way of thinking and capabilities, and spared them the wrong way  and falsehood.  This is all with the goal of making Man the most  virtuous successor on earth so he can enrich it with life and  civilisation and exploit its riches while being kind to other creatures.   
Allah the Almighty sealed His messages by sending Muhammad pbuh, the  most honoured of Messengers, whose birth anniversary is being celebrated  these days. He also conferred upon him high status as mentioned in this  Aya: "and raised high for you your repute." (Asharh: 4).  That  is, his name pbuh is having honour because it is mentioned alongside  with that of Allah in many places like in the recitation of Shahada and  in Adhan, Hassan bin Thabit explained.
Out of respect of his position, Allah the most Exalted has given  Muhammad pbuh a tribute that no one has ever had. For example, Allah  associates people's obedience to his Messenger with being obedient to  Him, as the following Aya shows:  "he who obeys the Messenger has obeyed Allah"  (Annisaa: 80).
Another Aya calls on believers to follow the Prophet as evidence of their love to their Lord. It says, "say,  [O Muhammad], "If you should love Allah , then follow me, [so] Allah  will love you and forgive you your sins. And Allah is Forgiving and  Merciful." (Al Imrarn: 31).
Dear Servants of Allah,  
Our Prophet pbuh conveyed the greatest message from heavens to the  entire humanity at a time when blood was being shed and animosity and  hatred had taken deep roots. It was also a time when the stronger  overtook the weaker, the richer got harder on the poor and everyone was  overtaken by illusions.
It was a 'dark age', the reason why Allah sent His Messenger to  replace people's ignorance with understanding, their dispute with  intimacy, their cruelty with mercy, their misery with happiness, and  their darkness with light. "It is He who sends down upon His Servant  [Muhammad] verses of clear evidence that He may bring you out from  darknesses into the light. And indeed, Allah is to you Kind and  Merciful." (Al Hadid: 9).
Dear Muslims,
The Prophet Muhammad pbuh came from the most noble family, about  which he said, "indeed Allah has chosen Ismail from the children of  Ibrahim, and He chose Banu Kinana from the children of Ismail, and He  chose the Quraish from Banu Kinana, and He chose Banu Hashim from  Quraish, and He chose me from Banu Hashim."
The year of his birth saw many events and great signs, most  importantly the elephant incident where Allah the Almighty crushed  Abraha and his army, preventing them from destroying the Sacred House  and Kaaba. He says, "Have you not considered, [O Muhammad], how your  Lord dealt with the companions of the elephant? Did He not make their  plan into misguidance? And He sent against them birds in flocks,  striking them with stones of hard clay, and He made them like eaten  straw." (Al Khaf). This year was named the year of the elephant.
It was reported that when his mother gave birth to him, she saw light illuminating the palaces of Sham.
Born as orphan, Muhammad pbuh lost his mother Amina bint Abdul  Muttalib when he was six years old. After that he lived under the care  of his grandfather Abdul Muttalib, who passed away two years later. At  the age of eight, he was taken care of by his uncle Abu Talib, who loved  him more than his son.  Abu Talib would only sleep beside him and say  to him, "O my nephew, you are indeed blessed." He pbuh went with his  uncle in a trade trip to Sham and noticed how clouds spread shade high upon him.
Muhammad pbuh grew under the protecting eye of Allah, preparing him  to convey His message. He was the best of his folk in manners,  behaviours, leniency, honesty and trustworthiness. For his merits, he  was called the Trustworthy.                                                                                                      
Some of his characters are described here: "there has certainly  come to you a Messenger from among yourselves. Grievous to him is what  you suffer; [he is] concerned over you and to the believers is kind and  merciful." (Attawba: 128).
Dear Believers,
At the age of forty, Allah set his Messenger ready to disseminate the  message of mercy to the worlds. Each time he passed by a rock or a tree  he would be greeted as the Messenger of Allah.  Later he would quite  often go for a retreat as narrated by Saiyda Aisha. She said,"and then  the love of seclusion was bestowed upon him. He used to go in seclusion  in the cave of Hira where he used to worship (Allah alone) continuously  for many days before his desire to see his family. He used to take with  him the journey food for the stay and then come back to (his wife)  Khadija to take his food likewise again till suddenly the Truth  descended upon him while he was in the cave of Hira.
"The angel came to him and asked him to read. The Prophet  replied,  "I do not know how to read." The Prophet  added, "The angel caught me  (forcefully) and pressed me so hard that I could not bear it any more.  He then released me and again asked me to read and I replied, 'I do not  know how to read.' Thereupon he caught me again and pressed me a second  time till I could not bear it any more.
"He then released me and again asked me to read but again I replied,  'I do not know how to read (or what shall I read)?' Thereupon he caught  me for the third time and pressed me, and then released me and said, 'Read  in the name of your Lord, who has created (all that exists), created  man from a clot. Read! And your Lord is the Most Generous." (Al Alaq:1-5).
Day and night he pbuh summoned his people to follow the message of  Allah until, by the garce of Him, he succeeded. On this matter, Allah  says "it is He who sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion  of truth to manifest it over all religion. And sufficient is Allah as  Witness." (Al Fath: 28).
Muhammad pbuh did not leave this world until he stopped the  bloodshedding, safeguarded people's integrity, established justice,  protected the most vulnerable, collected Zakat from the richer and  distributed it to the needy. He also honoured women and raised their  status, was kind to children, united  people and strengthened their  sense of  cohesion.
He said, "community is mercy, while split is torment." Indeed  whenever people come closer together and cordially united, the whole  community will enjoy progress and welfare. So stay united under your  leadership.
Bearing this to mind, we seek Allah's favour to help us obey Him and  His Prophet Muhammad pbuh. May Allah guide also us to follow his Sunna  and help us obey those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance  with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
 May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and  benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I  say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for  me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for  forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him,  having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is  His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be  upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those  who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Allah as it should be and  know that the message of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh-moderate as it is-  came to spread compassion  and serenity, remove differences and  animosity, preserve others' rights and promote good work.
The anniversary of his birth is an occasion to  ponder on his morals  and draw lessons for, indeed, he was genuinely kind to us. As such we  need to remember him regularly, think highly of him, educate our  children his merits and encourage them to emulate them. Because he  guided us to whatever beneficial and warned us against whatever   harmful, we need to adhere to his approach in order to enjoy a tranquil  life in this world and ultimately win his intercession in the Hereafter.
Dear Servants of Allah,
As we live in this beloved country we need to show mercy to one  another and assist each other in full synergy with our leaders, who are  following the example of the Prophet pbuh and his instructions. And as a  token of tribute to this country, where we have lived and grown,  enjoying its welfare, we should be proud of its acquisitions, increase  its achievements and maintain its authentic values ​​and customs.
Dear Muslims,                                                                    
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon  our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His  angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask  [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace."  (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a  blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said,  "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad  pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the  Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those  who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all  temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and  all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to  Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit  us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your  Paradise.
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but  You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a  distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without  relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in  this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good,  and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and  his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and  provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The  Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh  Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their  brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are  the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah,  the High, the Great.
O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be  grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you.  Allah, the Most High, says, "And establish prayer. Indeed, prayer  prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is  greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.













