addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise be to Allah as it ought to be. He sent us His best of creation and most honoured Messenger: our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, a guide to the right path. We thank Him also for enlightening our hearts to believe in his Apostle pbuh and long for his intercession.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah, having no Associates. To Him belongs the dominion, and to Him belongs all praise; He has created everything with precise determination.
I also bear witness that Muhammad pbuh is His Servant and Messenger. He pbuh was sent as a bringer of good tidings and a warner and one who invites to Allah, by His permission, and an illuminating lamp. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  I urge you and myself to obey Him and follow the guidance of His Trustworthy Prophet  pbuh as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (Attawba: 119).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the Almighty has blessed the Believers with Muhammad pbuh as Seal of the Prophets, reciting to them His verses, purifying them with his teachings, and perfecting their behaviours. Thus he pbuh guided people to the existence of the Greatest and Only Creator and showed them the right path. His manners were strongly highlighted and praised by Allah when He says, "and indeed, you are of a great moral character." (Al Qalam: 4).
Of all humankind, he was chosen to be His ultimate Prophet, and for that noble mission Allah the most Exalted taught him that which he did not know, educated  him properly, taught him the best of morals, expanded his chest  and relieved from him his burden.
Allah, Glory be to Him, also purified his Messenger pbuh's heart from the Satan's whispers and lodge in it but the light of prophethood and faith. Thus He protected all of his senses from deviation and tyranny as evidenced in the following verse: "by the star when it descends, your companion [Muhammad] has not strayed, nor has he erred, nor does he speak from [his own] inclination. It is not but a revelation revealed." (Annajm: 1-4).
There is no doubt as to the fact that Allah the Almighty has blessed His Messenger pbuh by electing him as the Master of the former and later people, and testifying to his sincerity and honesty. Allah says, "but Allah bears witness to that which He has revealed to you. He has sent it down with His knowledge, and the angels bear witness [as well]. And sufficient is Allah as Witness." (Annisaa: 166).
Allah has also granted him the highest gardens of Paradise and accepted him intreceding for the negligent, when He addressed him saying, "and if, when they wronged themselves, they had come to you, [O Muhammad], and asked forgiveness of Allah and the Messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they would have found Allah Accepting of repentance and Merciful." (Annisaa: 64).
O Servants of Allah,
Given his high status, our Lord has ordered us to venerate our Guide Muhammad pbuh when He says, "indeed, We have sent you as a witness and a bringer of good tidings and a warner that you [people] may believe in Allah and His Messenger and honor him and respect the Prophet and exalt." (Al Fath: 8-9).  Exalting the Prophet pbuh was interpreted by scholars as a call for showing due admiration and reverence to him.
His Campanions, may Allah be pleased with them, acknowledged his status pbuh and so they treated him with utmost respect. It was narrated that if he ordered them they would carry his orders promptly; if he performed ablution, they would struggle to take the remaining water; and when they spoke to him, they would lower their voices and would not look at his face constantly out of respect.
In this regard, Amr Ibn Al Als said, "and there is no one as or dear to me than the Messenger of Allah and none was more sublime in my eyes than he. Never could I have courage to catch a full glimpse of his face due to its splendour. So if I am asked to describe his features, I cannot do that for I have not eyed him fully."
Certainly it was out of sincere love and faith that his Companions loved him more than themselves and preferred him more than their families. When  Zayd ibn ad-Dathina was driven out of the Haram by Meccans to kill him, he was said to him, "don't you wish that Muhammad were with us now to take your place so that we could cut off his head, and you were with your family?"
Zayd said,  "By Allah, I would not wish Muhammad to be in a place where even a thorn could prick him, while I would be sitting comfortably with my family!"  Abu Sufyan, remarked,  "I have not seen any people who love anyone the way the Companions of Muhammad love Muhammad."
Dear Believers,
Please renew your connection with your Prophet pbuh by glorifying him within yourselves, genuinely loving him, and liking what he used to like. Those who love him will be admitted to Paradise as he said, "whoever loved me, he shall be with me in Paradise." Please also be aware that our faith is incomplete until  we truly love him more than we love ourselves. He pbuh said in this regard, "none of you is a believer till I am dearer to him than his child, his father and the whole of mankind." 
We should love him because of his his favours to us: he pbuh loved us, was kind to us, longed for seeing us and praised whoever would love him. He said, "The people most loved by me from amongst my Umma would be those who would come after me but everyone amongst them would have the keenest desire to catch a glimpse of me even at the cost of his family and wealth." 
Truly blessed are those who love the Prophet pbuh, are keen to see him, increase their prayers upon him, follow his Sunna and instructions in all matters of their lives, and consider him as their ideal example. Allah the Almighty says, "there has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern." (Al Ahzab: 21). 
This verse is seen by Ibn Kathir as a call for people to emulate the Prophet pbuh in his speech, acts and all of his situations.
Thus he pbuh was the best example in dealing with his Lord, for he would get up at night and stand for prayer until his feet swell. It was said to him, "O Messenger of Allah, Allah has forgiven you your past and future sins.   He said, 'should I not be a thankful servant?'"
He was the ideal example in dealing with his family for he would treat them with leninecy. He was compassionate and supportive.  He would avoid causing them any burden, so he would himself stitch his shoes, sew his garments  and serve his family.   
He was the ideal example in his trade, hence when he spoke he said the truth; when he promised, he fulfilled his pledges; and when entrusted, he lived up to the situation. He urged people to bring goods that benefit everyone and avoid fraud. He also called on them to be easy on the indebted  and show mercy to the needy. On this matter, he said, "may Allah have mercy on a person who is lenient when he sells, lenient when he buys, and lenient when he asks for payment."  
He was the ideal example in taking care of the vulnerable amongst people, showing mercy to the poor and inquiring about their situation. He would also concern himself with the environment and all creatures and show mercy to animals. It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh came upon an emaciated camel and said, "fear Allah regarding these dumb animals. Ride them when they are in good condition and eat from their meat when they are in good condition."
Certainly blessed are those who adore the Apostle of Allah pbuh, believe in him, love him, follow his instructions, Sunna and morals and avoid his prohibitions. In so doing they will gain Allah's satisfaction, be happy in this world, receive the intercession of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and ultimately enter Paradise. 
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to help us obey Him and His Prophet Muhammad pbuh. May Allah grant us his intercession and his love. May Allah also guide us to follow his Sunna and help us obey those He has ordained upon us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).   
 May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. 
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
You are asked to obey Him, love His Messenger pbuh and strengthen your connection with him by following his example in all aspects of your lives. Among his noble ethics is treating people with kindness and mercy, showing tolerance and observing good neighbouring.
He was also keen to promote sense of cohesion within the community, strengthen its unity and preserve its stability in full synergy with the leadership, calling, in this regard, for respecting leaders and rulers. This is indeed something the Prophet pbuh would love to see and cherish. It was narrated that before he died, he lifted the curtain of his house and started looking at his Companions as they were praying.  He was standing at that time and his face was (glittering) like a page of the Quran and he smiled cheerfully.        
His smile was interpreted by scholars as a sign of his delight as he contemplated the extent of agreement amongst his Companions.
Dear Muslims,                                                                
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise. O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













