addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah the Almighty Who makes us amongst the people of faith, and renders the love for the nation beautiful in our hearts. We also thank Him for the life of comfort He has bestowed upon us. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah, the most Compassionate, the Merciful, Who has no Associates. 
I also bear witness that Muhammad pbuh is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.    
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to obey Him and commit to work that pleases Him. So fear Allah as He should be feared for He says, "so fear Allah, O you of understanding, that you may be successful." (Al Maeda: 100).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the most Exalted has created Man with an inherent capacity to love the land on which he is born and raised, and he has taken delivery of its goodness. So considering the role of the environment in shaping one's character, personality and what he is, a person may find it difficult to quit the place where he has lived. No matter what circumstances that bring him to leave, at a certain point of time he would long for returning to it. 
This natural connection to the homeland is a blessing from Allah and it was the same trait that drove our Prophet Muhammad pbuh to feel special affection for the places where he had been resided. It was reported that whenever Allah's Messenger pbuh returned from a journey, he, on seeing the high places of Medina, would make his she-camel proceed faster; and if it were another animal, even then he used to make it proceed faster out of his love for Medina.
In addition to psychological factors, scholars said that the sense of patriotism has also religious grounds. It is deeply-rooted that its merits can be felt everywhere and all around. An evidence of this is be found in the prayer that our Prophet used to say in Ruqya (what it means): "by the name of Allah, the dust of our ground with the saliva of any one of us would serve as a means whereby our illness would be cured with the sanction of Allah."
O Servants of Allah,
Allah the Almighty has truly blessed us to live in this beloved country whose land is smooth and stable, its sky is protection, its air is breeze, its facilities are giving, its civilisation is source of pride, its people are its fortified shield, and its leaders are its source of giving that never depletes and its beating heart.
Indeed the leadership has raised the status of our nation, to which are brought the riches of all sorts. From all corners of the world people yearn to come and see it, and aspire for living in it. All of this is a favour from Allah, so let us remember His Aya saying, "if you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor]." (Ibrahim: 7).
Praise be to Allah for all his bounties on us as we live in a stable country, comfortably with hearts in harmony and hands in unity. This should also let  us reflect on the Hadith saying: "whoever among you wakes up physically healthy, feeling safe and secure within him, with food for the day, it is as if he acquired the whole world."
All of this is achieved in our country. So out of loyalty to it, it falls on us the responsibility to excel in serving it with the goal of raising its rank, preserving its wealth and solidifying its noble and authentic values and heritage. For this sake we need to show sincere loyalty to our leaders and rulers and implant the deep meaning of patriotism in our children.
In fact, this is a kind of obligation that we will be held accountable for towards Allah. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "verily, the Exalted Allah will ask everybody about his subjects, i.e. having been saved or ruined. He even asks men about their households in like manner."
Of course, everyone of us is accountable towards this country because we are part of it. Its happiness, security, safety, pride, integrity, honour are strongly intertwined with ours. In its defence, life sacrifice must be given because it is one of the highest forms of expressing honour and integrity. Moreover it is a mission passed on through generations and is highlighted in Islam as a sacred duty.
According to our lofty Islamic goals, a nation shall provide an environment where to establish religion and where lives, property and integrity are protected. This is further elaborated by some scholars who said that there are five indispensable principles of Sharia that are designed to preserve humans. These are faith, self, intellect, posterity and wealth.
The achievement of all these elements depends on defending the country's territories; otherwise, life will be disrupted, resulting in the loss of sanctity of life, wealth and honour. In this sense, defending one's country is a legitimate act which Islam calls for.
Dear Muslims,
It is our responsibility too to teach our children the love of their nation, for that will promote loyalty and sense of belonging. This can be achieved by preparing them to defend its territories and integrity, protecting its achievements and obeying its leaders and rulers. So let us then urge them to serve their nation by being committed to their job duties and good in their manners, seeking to expand their knowledge and skills and acquiring  more physical fitness so as to obtain Allah's satisfaction. The Messenger of Allah said, "a believer who is strong (and healthy) is better and dearer to Allah than the weak believer, but there is goodness in both of them. Be keen on what benefits you and seek help from Allah, and do not give up."
Indeed, blessed whoever loves his country, takes effort to develop it further and pray for it in the same way as the Prophet Ibrahim pbuh did, when he addressed Allah saying, "my Lord, make this city [Mecca] secure." (Ibrahim: 35).
Let us also supplicate to Allah the most Exalted to bless our beloved country as did our Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he said, "O Allah! Bless us in our fruits. Bless us in our city. Bless us in our saa and bless us in our mudd (these are two measures used to measure dates and other produce) O Allah! Ibrahim is Your slave, Your Khalil and Your Prophet. I am Your slave and Your Prophet. He prayed to You for Mecca. I pray to You for Medina for the like of what He prayed to You for Mecca, and the like of it with it.' Then he called the smallest child he saw and gave him the fruits."
Having this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to bless UAE and protect our leaders.  May Allah help us also to obey him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Him and know that the UAE leadership has an insightful vision and has been successful in ensuring the sanctity of individuals, defending the country, guaranteeing its stability and progress and preserving its acquisitions. From this spirit, it has offered the opportunity for all young Emiratis, male and female, to join the national service. This initiative is aimed to inculcate in them such virtues as loyalty and patriotism, strengthen their sense of assertiveness, self-confidence, discipline, perseverance, stamina and patience and teach them skills of defending oneself, family and the community as a whole. For Emirati women, the national service is optional, and those, who choose to join, will equally learn how to defend and serve their nation.
All in all, the service will ultimately enable our sons and daughters to pursue their lives in the best orderly way and shoulder life responsibilities competently. Furthermore, joining the military service by young people is a religious obligation, one that maintains the nation's independence, consolidates its security and stability and preserves its progress. This is in order to provide for UAE the optimal conditions conducive to perpetuating its status as a land of peace, prosperity, and giving, and ensuring its harmonious unity. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "the similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever."
Dear Muslims,                                                               
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
Praise be to Allah for his limitless blessings and for the stability and favours He grants us. May Allah rectify for us all of our affairs and do not leave us to ourselves, even for the blink of an eye. May Allah save our nation, bless our union, protect our leaders, and perpetuate the grace of security and stability for our dear country. O Allah the Al Mighty, grant us some of Your strength and our country Your protection. O Allah increase Your blessings on us and make us among those who are grateful to You.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, success and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













