addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He is the Creator, the Inventor, the Fashioner; to Him belong the Best Names. Whatever is in the heavens and earth is exalting Him. And He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah, the most Compassionate, the Merciful, Who has no Associates.
I also bear witness that Muhammad pbuh is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.    
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to obey Him and commit to work that pleases Him. So fear Allah as He should be feared for He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will [then] give you a double portion of His mercy and make for you a light by which you will walk and forgive you; and Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (Al Hadid: 28).
O Believers,
The Best Names of Allah are for glorifying Him and highlighing His supreme and perfect status. The Almighty Allah has honoured himself with these Names and chose either to reveal them in the Divine Book and through His Messengers, or kept their knowledge to Himself in the World of the Unknown. What is more, they are unique and truly no one has them.
To know about Allah the most Sublime, his Best Names and Attributes is a high form of knowledge and a foundation of  religion. It increases one's faith and strengthens his will. This is evidenced in many Quranic verses and Hadiths.
For example, Allah says in Surat Al Al Hashr: "He is Allah, other than whom there is no deity, Knower of the unseen and the witnessed. He is the Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful. He is Allah , other than whom there is no deity, the Sovereign, the Pure, the Perfection, the Bestower of Faith, the Overseer, the Exalted in Might, the Compeller, the Superior. Exalted is Allah above whatever they associate with Him.  He is Allah , the Creator, the Inventor, the Fashioner; to Him belong the best names. Whatever is in the heavens and earth is exalting Him. And He is the Exalted in Might, the Wise." (Al Hashr: 22-24).
Stressing the benefits of their knowledge, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Allah has ninety-nine names, i.e. one-hundred minus one, and whoever knows them will go to Paradise." This describes someone who enumerates the Divine Names and Attributes, understands their meanings and behaves accordingly.
Therefore, if he says bismi Allah Al  Rahman Al Rahim (in the name of Allah, the most Merciful, the most Compassionate), he should know that Allah's mercy is so vast that both the doers of good and the transgressors can seek it and benefit from. Allah says, "say, "O My servants who have transgressed against themselves [by sinning], do not despair of the mercy of Allah. Indeed, Allah forgives all sins. Indeed, it is He who is the Forgiving, the Merciful." (Azzumar: 53).
Indeed, thanks to Allah's mercy that His Creations are kind to one another as our Prophet pbuh said, "Allah divided Mercy into one hundred parts. He kept ninety nine parts with Him and sent down one part to the earth, and because of that, its one single part, His Creations are merciful to each other, so that even the mare lifts up its hoofs away from its baby animal, lest it should trample on it."
It is also out of Allah's mercy that one's heart gets softened and characters mended. The Almighty says, "So by mercy from Allah , [O Muhammad], you were lenient with them." (Al Imran: 159). Here the Prophet pbuh was said that by Allah's grace that his morals was softened to bear the harm from enemies, and to forgive them ultimately.
Among the benefits that the Prophet pbuh drew from his close connection with his Lord was the great feelings of sympathy he had towards others. The Almighty said, "there has certainly come to you a Messenger from among yourselves. Grievous to him is what you suffer; [he is] concerned over you and to the believers is kind and merciful." (Attawba: 128). He also says, "And We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds," (Al Anbiyaa: 107. This verse came to stress the fact that Allah's mercy has encompassed all of his Creations.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Part and parcel of the individual's happiness is to emulate the essence of Allah's Attributes and Names. So if he remembers the name of Allah Assalam (The Peace- also an expression of salutation in Islam), he should work towards spreading it amongst people and all Creations.
Our Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "greeting is one of Allah's Attributes He has spread on the earth. So, let it prevail among you, for when a Muslim passes by a group of people and greets them, he will be higher in rank than them if he is greeted back, and he will be greeted back by someone better and purer than them if they do not respond to his greeting."
This way a Muslim would grasp the meanings of the Names of Allah in his life. And by following these Divine traits, a person will be of great morals, generous, lenient ​​if he is angry, forgiving, merciful to all creations, patient at times of adversity and grateful when he is in good situation.
Dear Muslims,
Please be aware that Allah the most Exalted has ordered us to call on Him by His Names. He says in this regard, "and to Allah belong the best names, so invoke Him by them." (Al Aaraf: 180). This means we need to invoke Him by His Names in supplications as appropriate. Thus we can say, "Ya Rahim iramni, ya Ghafoor ighfir li, ya Razzaq irzuqni, ya Hadi ihdini" (O the Merciful, bestow Your mercy on me. O the Forgiving, forgive me. O the Provider, grant me provision . O the Guide, show me the right path). And if we pray to him in general terms, we can say,  "Ya Allah." (O Allah!), which encompasses all of His Best Names.
Our Prophet pbuh used to supplicate to Allah by His Best Names and Sublime Attributes. It was reported by Anas ibn Malik  that whenever a matter would distress the Prophet pbuh, he would say, "O Living, O Self-Sustaining Sustainer!  In Your Mercy do I seek relief (Ya Hayyu Ya Qayyum, bi Rahmatika astaghith)."
On the narration of Thawban that when the Prophet pbuh uttered Taslim, he used to say: "O Allah, You are As-Salam, and from you is As-Salam. You are blessed, O One of Magnificence and Generosity."
It was reported that Anas bin Malik said: "I was sitting with the Messenger of Allah pbuh and a man was standing and praying. When he bowed, prostrated and recited the Tashahhud, he supplicated, and in his supplication he said, 'Allahumma inni asaaluka bi anna laka alhamda, la Illaha illa anta, Al Mannanu Badiu assamawati wa alardi, Ya dha aljalali wa al Ikram! Ya hayyu Ya qayyum! Inni asaaluka.(O Allah, indeed I ask You since all praise is due to You, there is none worthy of worship but You, the Bestower, the Creator of the heavens and earth, O Possessor of majesty and honour, O Ever-living, O Eternal, I ask of You.)'
The Prophet pbuh said, 'do you know what he has supplicated with?' They said, 'Allah and His Messenger know best.'  He said: 'By the One in Whose Hand is my soul, he called upon Allah by His greatest Name, which, if He is called by it, He responds, and if He is asked by it, He gives'."
Yet in another Hadith, Muad ibn Jabal reported  that the Prophet pbuh heard a man while he was saying,  "O Possessor of Majesty and Honour (Ya Dha Al Jalali Wal Ikram)" So he said, 'you have been responded to, so ask'."
O Allah, we invoke You by Your Best Names and Sublime Attributes to help us obey You and those You have ordained upon us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Him as it ought to be and know that His Names have great status. Among them is the Healer, the Affectionate,(Al Shafi), meaning He is the One able to cure the Creations from their illnesses. So when falling sick, Muslims must have faith and trust in Allah the most Exalted by seeking his blessings and cure, the latter being made possible through doctors.
The Prophet Ibrahim pbuh was quoted in the holy Quran as saying, "and when I am ill, it is He who cures me." (Ash-Shuaaraa: 80). That is Allah who causes cure, a fact highlighted by the Prophet pbuh for whenever he would visit an ill person, he would say, "[O Allah,] make the harm go away, Lord of mankind, and heal him, You are the Healer, there is no healing except your healing, a healing that does not leave any sickness."
Having this in mind, O Allah the most Sublime, the most Merciful, the Healer, we seek Your grace to cure Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, and perpetuate abundance of health and wellbeing on him. May Allah  protect him and grant him Your generous rewards for all the good He has delivered to us.
Dear Muslims,  
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." 
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs:  Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah! All the Praise belongs to You; You are the Light of the Heavens and the Earth. You are the Keeper of the Heavens and the Earth. You are the Lord of the Heavens and the Earth and whatever is therein.
"You are the Truth, and Your Promise is the Truth, and Your Speech is the Truth, and meeting You is the Truth, and Paradise is the Truth and Hell (Fire) is the Truth and all the prophets are the Truth and the Hour is the Truth.
O Allah! I surrender to You, and believe in You, and depend upon You, and repent to You. So please forgive my past and future sins and those sins which I did in secret or in public. It is You Whom I worship, None has the right to be worshipped except You."
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy, You are the Ever Merciful and there is no strength or power save with Allah, the High, the Great.
O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













