addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, Who created and proportioned And Who destined and [then] guided. He created Man and did not leave him in vain. I also thank Him for the beautiful qualities He has adorned us with.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah, the most Exalted, the Merciful, Who has no Associates. He has the exclusive attributes of perfection and majesty.
I also bear witness that Muhammad pbuh is His Servant and Messenger, a man of great ethics, who was sent to perfect honourable morals. He is endowed with the intercession on the Day of Judgement. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. 
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to obey Him and commit to work that pleases Him. The Almighty says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab: 70-71).
Dear Muslims,
Allah sent a series of messages to His Creations with the goal of establishing firmly honourable morality and straightening further their behaviours. This way they can have their lives stable and fufill their mission of populating the earth and enriching  it with life and civilisation.
In so doing, they will please Allah and work in line with our Prophet Muhammad pbuh's message, being the final one. A noble message, it came to emphasise  the importance of ethics through the example of the Prophet pbuh, who is the best people in character. How could he not be so as his Lord specially praised him saying, "and indeed, you are of a great moral character." (Al Qalam: 4).
Indeed, he pbuh was the epitome of high morality and ethics. He was kind to all people, whether close to him or not, both the elderly and the young, either Muslims or non-Muslims. His noble manners had amazed people, who eventually loved him. No wonder then Allah chose him to spread the message of Islam, a great religion of ethics, mercy, peace, and harmony.
These are the same qualities a person should possess to raise his status as our Prophet pbuh said, "shall I tell you about who among you I love the most and the one who will be seated closest to me on the Day of Rising?"  The people were silent, so he repeated that two or three times. "  Then the people said, "Yes, Messenger of Allah. He said, "The one among you with the best character."
O Servants of Allah,
Our Master Muhammad pbuh urged us to have good moral values and seek to promote them amongst the community. He said in this regard, "fear Allah wherever you may be, do good deeds after doing bad ones, the former will wipe out the latter, and behave decently towards people." He also showed us that a Muslim is one who is distinguished by honourable ethics and in no way should he cause harm to people, whether physically or verbally. He said, "the Muslim is the one from whose tongue and hand the Muslims are safe."
Additionally, our Prophet pbuh explained to us that one's morality is a good reason for elevating his rank and a means for removing his misdeeds. On this matter he said, "nothing is placed on the Scale that is heavier than good character. Indeed the person with good character will have attained the rank of the person of fasting and prayer."
In the following Hadith, he warned us of bad manners and its consequences, highlighing at the same time the virtues and rewards of good ethics. Abu Huraira reported  that a man said, O Messenger of Allah, a woman prays, fasts, and gives charity often but she annoys her neighbour with her sharp tongue."  The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "She will be in the Hellfire.
He said, "O Messenger of Allah, another woman prays, fasts, and gives in charity very little but she does give some cheese in charity and she does not annoy her neighbour with her tongue." He said, "She will be in Paradise."
On another note, a well-behaved Muslim can be compared to rain; wherever it falls it benefits the land. A Muslim is, therefore, supposed to benefit others by his acts, speech, and all of his good manners.  If they are in dispute, he shall offer help to overcome their differences, bringing them together, and If they make a mistake, he advises them wisely. A Muslim must not transgress the sanctity of others, or he shall incur Allah's wrath and punishment in return.
The Almighty said, "indeed, those who like that immorality should be spread [or publicised] among those who have believed will have a painful punishment in this world and the Hereafter. And Allah knows and you do not know." ((Annur: 19).
Also Muslims are warned against spreading gossip. And those who do shall be exposed too. The Prophet pbuh said, "O community of people, who believed by their tongue, and belief did not enter their hearts, do not back-bite Muslims, and do not search for their faults, for if anyone searches for their faults, Allah will search for his fault, and if Allah searches for the fault of anyone, He disgraces him in his house."
In another Hadith, the Prophet said, "the believer is not a slanderer, nor does he curse others, and nor is he immoral or shameless." The shameless is someone who is insensible to disgrace and when he speaks, he often does so in obscene words.
In fact, whoever his behaviours worsen, his acts and speech wosen too. On the authority of Muadh bin Jabal who said, "O Prophet of Allah, will we be taken to account for what we say with it?"  He pbuh said, "may your mother be bereaved of you, O Muadh! Is there anything that throws people into the Hellfire upon their faces - or on their noses - except the harvests of their tongues?" 
O Believers,
Please be aware that a Muslim who reflects Islam's morality and ethics shall not say a word that hurts people. This means anything you say can either be for you or against  you.
The Messneger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "a man speaks what is pleasing to Allah and he does not suspect that it will have the result that it does, and Allah will write for him His good pleasure for it until the day when he meets Him. And a man speaks what excites the wrath of Allah and he does not suspect that it will have the result that it does, and Allah will write His wrath for him for it until the day when he meets Him."
In view of this, a Muslim needs to choose beneficial speech, one that brings people together and does not cause disunity. He, therefore, needs to watch his words, so he either speak good or remain silent as pointed out by the Prophet pbuh in the following Hadith: "he who believes in Allah and the Last Day, must speak good or remain silent".
Having this in mind, we ask Allah's favour to make us amongst those with the best ethics and grant us his favour to enjoy our hearing, our seeing, and our strength as long as He keeps us alive.
May Allah guide us to be amongst those who listen to speech and follow the best of it. May Allah help us also to obey him and those He has ordained upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please bear in mind that good manners requires treating people well following the example of our Prophet pbuh, who treated everyone nicely, be he young or old, rich or poor, Muslim or non-Muslim. He was thoroughly aware of the fact that Allah the most Exalted has created humankind and honoured them as evidenced in this Aya: "and We have certainly honoured the children of Adam." (Al Israa: 70).
Today we do really need much of this spirit and best ethics as perfectly embodied in the person of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh. This is because we live at a time when people from various backgrounds meet and interact massively due to the evolution and availability of means of transporations and communication. So the more we commit ourselves to good ethics and respect for others, the more we adhere to our religion and the teachings of our Prophet pbuh.
Dear Muslims,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."  
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs:   Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you.
Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













