addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has praised the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, regarding the law on national compulsory military service.
In a statement, Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, said, "UAE has become a strong point of civilisation attraction, spanning various areas modern life, which are rapidly evolving. Thank to Allah first and to the wise leadership the future of the UAE is very promising for the community, the latter is looking forward to building giant factories and furthering in knowledge-based economy and smart technology."
He said that there were challenges on the global level that no one could afford to ignore and that is why we need to build generations of Emiratis who can ably assume these rights and bounties and develop them.  Dr al Mazrouei added that the resulting growth and abundance need national cadres to erect the edifice of the nation by contributing to its economy, production and education and excelling in all aspects of development. Its foundations must be based on piety, knowledge, wisdom and authenticity, said he.
Referring to the Hadith saying, "a believer who is strong (and healthy) is better and dearer to Allah than the weak believer," Dr al Mazrouei mentioned that defending the nation is an obligation.
On this occasion, Dr al Mazrouei reiterated his sincere thanks to the judicious leadership for introducing the compulsory national service for young Emiratis with the aim of further empowering them to defend the country and its achievements.
This way they can grow on the love and loyalty towards Allah, their leadership and beloved country, he said, adding: "as citizens and parents, we are delighted by this decision."
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, said that the military institution in the UAE is seen worldwide as a force of fine national and humane values. He added that as well as serving its duties nationally, it had also contributed to world peace endeavour. It has pleased Allah, the Ruler and the Nation and helped preserve human sanctity, said Dr al Kaabi.
He explained that the national service decision was the dream of the founders of this nation.
Yet as much as the national acquisitions of this country need protection, the people need also to empower themselves and prepare the young militarily. The training will help the youth to grasp further the true meanings of sacrifice, loyalty, chivalry and discipline, he commented.
Dr al Kaabi explained also that the military is a great school for making man.
On another note, he said that both the nation and the Emirati society are proud of their leadership in setting up the basis for a modern life. Their commendable efforts have made of UAE people one of the happiest in the world and raised the status of the country worldwide, said he, adding that essential to happiness is to see our sons and daughters [optional for females] serving in the military for some months or years to become the safety and peace valve for the country.
Dr al Kaabi concluded his statement by extending his sincere thanks to the wise leadership for taking this invaluable initiative.
 













