addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the one and only God. He is the Eternal Refuge. He neither begets nor is born, nor is there to Him any equivalent. Our Lord, for You is all praise, an abundant beautiful blessed praise.
I bear witness that there is no deity, except for Allah, having no partners. He has ordered us to obey Him by worshipping Him and never turn ungrateful to Him.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His loyal Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow -and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Believers,
Allah the Almighty has created humans out of His absolute Might and bestowed upon them His grace. He sent messengers and prophets to show the canons of religion and guide them to noble values ​​and ethics. The aim is to enable them to worship Him with a profound perception and treat all of His Creations kindly. Having these virtues, individuals can benefit their nations and the humanity as a whole.
Yet for the purpose of establishing a good relationship with their Lord, people need to fulfil contractual obligations and covenants as stated in this verse: "and fulfill [every] commitment. Indeed, the commitment is ever [that about which one will be] questioned." (Al Israa: 34). The adherence to this sacred pledge is of both religious and legal nature, highlighting perfection of faith and leading those who abide by it to enjoy higher ranks in Paradise. Allah the most Exalted has praised believers for their keen interest in respecting covenants when He says, "and they who are to their trusts and their promises attentive." (Al Muaminun: 8).
According to interpretations, the verse indicates that all what Allah has ordered or prohibited is a covenant itself. This includes, one the one hand,  the divine instructions that regulate the relationship between Allah and His servants, and, on the other hand, those which govern people' relations amongst themselves.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Of all covenants in history of Man, faith was the first and foremost. The Almighty says, "and [mention] when your Lord took from the children of Adam - from their loins - their descendants and made them testify of themselves, [saying to them], "Am I not your Lord?" They said, "Yes, we have testified." (Al Araf: 173).  Our Guide Muhammad pbuh advised us to seek ways to emphasise our commitment to  Allah to stay clear from sins and yearn for His forgiveness. 
As mentioned in the Hadith that follows, we can pray to Allah saying, "O Allah! You are my Lord. None has the right to be worshipped except You. You created me and I am Your servant and I abide by Your covenant and promise as best I can. I seek refuge in You from the evil, which I have committed. I acknowledge Your favour upon me and I aknowledge my sins, so forgive me, for verily none can forgive sins except You."
Dear Muslims,
Allah's covenant is solemn and most sincere. The Almighty decreed it on His apostles, and clearly ordered to be fulfilled as mentioned here: "and the covenant of Allah fulfil. This has He instructed you that you may remember." Al Anaam: 152). Allah also ordered His servants to worship Him alone and disobey Satan. He says, "did I not enjoin upon you, O children of Adam, that you not worship Satan - [for] indeed, he is to you a clear enemy -and that you worship [only] Me? This is a straight path." (Yasin: 60-61).
This is a direct instructions to people to worship Allah alone, obey Him sincerely and resist Satan's temptations. Achieving these two conditions is seen as the true religion and the straight path.
To realise allegiance to Allah we need to obey His orders, refrain from His prohibitions and follow the precepts of the holy Quran and the Sunna of the Prophet pbuh. In so doing we will be amongst the pious, who are dear to Allah as He has promised us. The Almighty says in this regard, "but yes, whoever fulfils his commitment and fears Allah - then indeed, Allah loves those who fear Him." (Al Imran: 76). In another verse, He says, "and he who fulfills that which he has promised Allah - He will give him a great reward." (Al Fath: 10).
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Another form of sacred committment to Allah is maintaining good relationship between spouses, the latter being bound by a fine covenant. In this regard Allah says, "and they have taken from you a solemn covenant?" (Annisaa: 21).
Here Allah addresses husbands to treat their wives nicely, an order that is further emphasised in the following verse: "and live with them in kindness. For if you dislike them - perhaps you dislike a thing and Allah makes therein much good." (Annisaa: 19).
Our Prophet pbuh set a good example of a husband who was faithful to his wives- the mothers of believers. It was related that he remained always devoted and thoughtful of Sayida Khadija, may Allah be pleased with her. After her death, He pbuh would remember her and honour her friends. One day Hassana al Muzaniya came to him, he welcomed her generously and asked about her. He told Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, that she used to visit them at time of Khadija and that fidelity is part of faith.
Dear Muslims,
One more aspect of fulfilment of covenant is living up to promises and respecting contracts. In this regard Allah says, "O you who have believed, fulfill [all] contracts." (Al Maeda: 1). Interpreting this verse, scholar Hassan al Basri said, "contracts may mean any binding promises and engagements by someone, be they buy and sell, lease or rent, marriage or divorce, usufruct or ownership [...]" In this sense, contracts are any obligations between people in transactions, sales, codes of work, and so on.
Any breach of those engagements is considered failing in religion and loss of rights. The Prophet pbuh said, "whoever loses the attribute of fulfilling obligations has discarded his religion." Therefore, Muslims have to commit fully to whatever agreed on in contracts as is mentioned in the following Hadith: "Muslims are liable to their stipulations."
O Servants of Allah, when you sell a merchandise, please respect its specifications and when you buy something pay in time and without needless delay.  On this matter, our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "delay in payment by a rich man is injustice."
Dear Employees, please know that your commitment to your employment contract is a religious obligation and a promise that you have to respect by fulfilling your duties with honesty and sincerity in obedience to Allah and for serving  the community. Moreover, your taking of the oath must be honoured by observing your promise and the conditions related thereto.
The Almighty says, "and fulfil the covenant of Allah when you have taken it, [O believers], and do not break oaths after their confirmation while you have made Allah , over you, a witness. " (Annahl: 91).
That is, do not breach your promises and covenants after you have expressed them out of vain life pursuits. Indeed no matter what people possess in this world is doomed, yet what Allah holds for those who fulfil their pledge to Him is everlasting. The Almighty says, "whatever you have will end, but what Allah has is lasting." (Annahl: 96).
With this in mind, O Allah, we seek Your favour to make us amongst those who observe trust and covenants and follow Your Book and the Sunna of Your Prophet pbuh. May Allah help us always to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Him as it ought be and know that Allah the most Exalted has ordered us to respect covenants. Among these is loyalty to the nation and the leadership. Truly blessed are those who fulfil their allegiance to Allah by remaining steadfastly faithful to their leaders and nation, safeguarding their country's acquisitions, defending its integrity, offering to sacrifice for its sake, contributing to its unity and harmony and being keen on the values ​​of the Islamic faith.
Indeed this is what pleases Allah. Yet anyone who violates his Lord's covenant is disobedient to Him and a traitor to his nation. Hence he deserves punishment in return for his action.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever has the following four (characteristics) will be a pure hypocrite and whoever has one of the following four characteristics will have one characteristic of hypocrisy unless and until he gives it up. Whenever he is entrusted, he betrays; whenever he speaks, he tells a lie; whenever he makes a covenant, he proves treacherous and whenever he quarrels, he behaves in a very imprudent, evil and insulting manner."  
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs:  Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we are Your servants, sons of Your servants, our forelocks are in Your hand, Your command over us is forever executed and Your decree over us is just. We ask You by every name belonging to You which You name Yourself with, or revealed in Your Book, or You taught to any of Your Creation, or You have preserved in the knowledge of the unseen with You, that You make us amongst those who fulfil their pledges and trust.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
 Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













