addthis_pub="newawqaf";















"Thank you Sheikh Khalifa," says a gathering held by Awqaf in response to the initiative of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai on the occasion of his accession to power in the emirate of Dubai. Participants expressed their gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, may Allah protect him and highlighted his great role in many areas, including religious, social and humanitarian.
The seminar was held at Al Ain Municipal Theatre and attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, divisions and Awqaf branches' directors, in addition to a host of attendees from all walks of life. 
In a speech, Dr al Mazrouei said, "in one voice, thank you Sheikh Khalifa. Thank you for all the good things you have offered to us. Since expressing gratitude is part of religion and the Sunna of our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, we, in Awqaf, bear the responsibility to show to the public that thanking our leader Sheikh Khalifa is a core value of religion. At this instance we are praying to Allah to reward you for all your noble services and contributions you have made to the nation. To thank you is also a recognition of your accomplishments at many levels: national, global and humanitarian.  
"Dear scholars, Imams and Khateebs, please know that your role in thanking and praying for HH Sheikh Khalifa is important towards Allah the Almighty and amongst people. Please Allow me to tell you, Your Highness, that because of your support that Awqaf was established in 2006 and ever since it has received special interest from you. Many of the great mosques people see today and enjoy are the fruits of your directives. Thanks to your support Quranic memorisation centres and the official Fatwa Centre have also thrived. The latter has evolved to become a reference authority in Fatwa inside and outside UAE. Other aspects of development and excellence at Awqaf includes but are not limited to the official Haj delegation, which has received much praise across the Muslim world. Thank you Your Highness for all your generous contributions that have spurred progress at Awqaf." 
Dr al Mazrouei added: "special thanks goes also to His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, may Allah protect him, which has launched this initiative through which we can learn how to educate generations of men and women how to thank our leader and father for his generosity. All due thanks to Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates and to His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah prolong his life and perpetuate abundance of health and wellbeing on him. He is always supportive to Awqaf and its activities. Credit also goes to the Founding Father the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace." 
For his part, Dr al Kaabi addressed the gathering by first reciting the Hadith: "the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke Allah's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them."  He then said, "our hearts, selves and minds, all express love to you. Thank you Sheikh Khalifa, the father, the leader and the person. Thank you Sheikh Khalifa for being considerate and caring about people; you are thoughtful of every detail of their lives whether to do with housing, welfare, education, health services, social to name but a few. You are keen to protect the cohesion of the family and provide all means to ensure happiness for all. 
"For all of this and more, thank you...for caring about the young and the elderly and raising the status of women. You have also guided the youth to pursue excellence and taking leading roles. Under your judicious guidance we are further united together like a father to his sons and daughters. Thank you Sheikh Khalifa, the leader, who has laid down the basis for stability and security throughout the country. Formidably, you are steering the wheel of the Union towards further progress. Our rules, economy, mosques, roads, sanctuaries, water resources, and electricity have thus become an example to many and an epitome of the leadership's wisdom and forward-looking planning...
"Thank you Sheikh Khalifa, the person, who loves people and extends his hands out of love seeking cooperation and good relations. You are keen to remove distress on people and stand by the needy. You support the talented and empower them so they can serve their country better. All of your contributions have paid off and raised the rank of UAE higher, securing for it an honourable place in the history of civilisation."
Dr al Kaabi concluded his speech by thanking HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid for this remarkable initiative.
Other members from Awqaf took the podium to thank Sheikh Khalifa and all UAE Rulers, emphasising various aspects of his characters and achievements.
 
 













