addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Saeed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Representative of Abu Dhabi's Ruler, has opened Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan Mosque in Hili area in Al Ain. The inauguration ceremony was attended by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, Dr Matar al Nuaimi, director of Al Ain municipality, Mr Hamad bin Suhail al Rashdi, director general of HH Sheikh Saeed bin Zayed's office, Counselor Mr Saeed Ali bin Hmidat al Kutbi and a host of officials representing various government departments in Al Ain.
 In a statement, Sheikh Saeed bin Zayed praised the special interest devoted to mosques by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. He underscored HH Sheikh Khalifa's directives about the importance of maintaining mosques and providing all what it needs in order to undertake their roles in the community, adding that they should reflect the civilisational image of Islam and that of our young country as well as meeting the aspirations of our wise leadership.
HH Sheikh Saeed also stressed the role of mosques in serving the religion and educating Muslims about what is good for them in this life and the next, as well as promoting the culture of moderation. 
For his part, Dr al Mazrouei lauded the support of HH Sheikh Khalifa to UAE mosques, indicating that worshippers, Emiratis and residents, were impressed by them and the special care they receive.
UAE mosques are of high standards in terms of construction quality safety as well as utility facilities, namely state-of-the-art audio systems, fine furnishings and the special fittings for people with special needs and the elderly, he said, adding added that Awqaf had provided women's payer halls and was offering continuous maintenance. 
Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Hili was first built in 1971 but with the increasing number of worshippers it was decided to expand it.  At a cost of AED 15 mn and a total area of 3100 sqm, now it has a capacity of 2000 worshippers in the main hall and 500 in the women's. During Eids, it can accommodate 7000 male worshippers and 1500 female worshippers. The mosque features an Islamic architecture and ornaments of UAE heritage character. The construction took a record time of only one year and four months.
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi said, "today we are inaugurating a mosque named after someone, who is dear to our hearts. He is the founding father of this nation. He steadfastly led the march of its building and brought it forward from success to success. Thanks to his wise determination, UAE has become amongst the developed countries. His achievements and contributions will remain an example of good governance. Naming this mosque after Sheikh Zayed is indded an evidence of continuity and loyalty to him. May Allah rest his soul in peace."
 
 













