addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah. He prefers the pious amongst the believers and describes their generosity, kindness, quality of restraining anger and pardoning others. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. He is worthy of fear and adequate for [granting] forgiveness. To Him is [due all] praise in the first [life] and the Hereafter.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the best who gave and feared Allah. And He is also the best humans in creation; a  finest example of character. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him in light of what He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord and fear a Day when no father will avail his son, nor will a son avail his father at all. Indeed, the promise of Allah is truth, so let not the worldly life delude you and be not deceived about Allah by the Deceiver." (Luqman: 33).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has attributed beautiful qualities to His righteous servants, describing them as the believers who compete with each other for doing good with the goal of attaining higher ranks in Paradise.  The Almighty says that their work and giving are tremendous and continuing.
They are also depicted as people who do not harm others and are of wise attitude. They show mercy, display patience and resolve to self-restraint when they are harmed. And if they commit a wrongdoing, they seek repentance and refuge with Allah. They remember Him and supplicate to Him for forgiveness, vowing to stay away from misdeeds.
In further description of their characteristics, Allah says, "and hasten to forgiveness from your Lord and a garden as wide as the heavens and earth, prepared for the righteous Who spend [in the cause of Allah ] during ease and hardship and who restrain anger and who pardon the people - and Allah loves the doers of good; And those who, when they commit an immorality or wrong themselves [by transgression], remember Allah and seek forgiveness for their sins - and who can forgive sins except Allah ? - and [who] do not persist in what they have done while they know. Those - their reward is forgiveness from their Lord and gardens beneath which rivers flow [in Paradise], wherein they will abide eternally; and excellent is the reward of the [righteous] workers." (Al Imran: 133-136). 
Dear Believers,
Here Allah the most Exalted has demonstrated the generosity of His pious servants, as in the verse:  "Who spend [in the cause of Allah] during ease and hardship. It is a noble quality that distinguishes them whether in good or bad times, in good health or ailment. This includes their spending during their lifetime or what they would prescribe in their will. Because they spend on regular basis, the impact of their generosity is positively visible in people's well-being. In so doing they fear no poverty, and let no selfish feeling overtake them. Simply they make it their life mission to bring relief to the needy, benefit others and ultimately please Allah.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Self-restraint is yet another commendable characteristics of the pious as mentioned in this verse, "and who restrain anger," being a call for keeping resentment at bay. The same thing is echoed by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh who said, "the strong-man is not one who wrestles well but the strong man is one who controls himself when he is in a fit of rage." Thus, leniency, generosity and self-control are seen as strength while rage outburst is weakness, which undermines one's repute.
With this in mind, if you get angry, you are requested to control you anger by seeking refuge in Allah from the cursed Satan. It was narrated by Suleiman bin Sarad that Two men abused each other in front of the Prophet pbuh while we were sitting with him. One of the two abused his companion furiously and his face became red. The Prophet pbuh said,  "I know a word (sentence) the saying of which will cause him to relax if this man says it. Only if he said, 'I seek refuge with Allah from Satan, the outcast'."  
And if you are angry and you are standing, you would be better sit down and let your anger go. The Prophet pbuh said, "when you are fasting, you must not engage in any quarrel or shouting. Should anyone verbally abuse you or fight you, you should only say: I am fasting. And if someone provokes you into a quarrel, whether verbal or physical, you are also recommended to sit down if you are standing." 
Please know that self-control and your willingness to pardon while you are in the state of power is a great personal asset, one that Allah praises and recompenses. On this matter, our Prophet pbuh said, "the one who suppresses anger and has the power to give effect to it, will be called out by Allah, the Exalted, to the forefront of the creatures on the Day of Resurrection and he will be asked to choose any of the Hur of his liking."
Dear Muslims,
By controlling your anger you can forgive others as the Almighty says, "and who pardon the people." Pardoning is seen by scholars as one of the best acts that can help you you overcome your mistakes and remove your misdeeds. It offers opportunities for you to show kindness to Creations. That is why Allah the most Exalted describes those who forgive as doers of good and promises them His love. He says, "and Allah loves the doers of good."
Let us see in this regard how our Master Muhammad pbuh pardoned someone who had ill-treated him. He pbuh even offered him something.
Anas bin Malik said, "once I was walking with Allah's Messenger pbuh and he was wearing a Najran Burd with thick margin. A Bedouin followed him and pulled his Burd so violently that I noticed the side of the shoulder of Allah's Messenger pbuh affected by the margin of the Burd because of that violent pull. The Bedouin said,  'O Muhammad! Give me some of Allah's wealth which is with you.'  Allah's Messenger pbuh turned and looked at him, and smiling, he ordered that he be given something."
Let us explore the value of forgiving while dealing with our spouses, children, relatives, neighbours and everybody else, and embrace the pathway towards reaching the status of the righteous.
Dear Servants  of Allah,
The pious servants are also those who invoke Allah continuously. The Almighty says,  "and those who, when they commit an immorality or wrong themselves [by transgression], remember Allah and seek forgiveness for their sins." (Al Imaran: 135). That is, people who supplicate to Allah for forgiveness if they have undertaken any wrongdoings. They remember their Lord and His Might, refrain from misdeeds and turn to Him for repentance. They believe that no one can forgive sins, except him.
Having this in mind, may Allah make us amongst Your righteous servants; those who fear You unseen. May Allah help us always to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be and know that He has prepared for His pious worshippers such things as no eye has ever seen, no ear has ever heard of, and nobody has ever thought of. The Almighty says, "indeed, for the righteous with their Lord are the Gardens of Pleasure." (Al Qalam: 34)
Gardens of Pleasure is the eternal abode of the pious, for whom its gates will be opened to let them in, greeted by its keepers. Therein, the righteous will cherish never-ending blessings and a life of no parallel in return for their good work.
Allah says, "but those who feared their Lord will be driven to Paradise in groups until, when they reach it while its gates have been opened and its keepers say, 'Peace be upon you; you have become pure; so enter it to abide eternally therein," [they will enter]. And they will say, "Praise to Allah , who has fulfilled for us His promise and made us inherit the earth [so] we may settle in Paradise wherever we will. And excellent is the reward of [righteous] workers'." (Azzumar: 73-74).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, apportion for us, reverential fear of You, that shall come between us and disobedience of You; and of obedience to You, which shall cause us to obtain Your Paradise; and of certainty, which shall make the afflictions of the world easy for us; and enjoyment of our hearing, and our seeing, and our strength as long as You keep us alive; and make it the inheritor of us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













