addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the forbearing; He ordains modesty and honourable attitude and accepts repentance from His servants. We thank Him for adorning us with decency in character and decreeing upon us to act in orderly manner.
I bear witness that there is no deity, except for Allah, having no partners. He ordered us to stay chaste and pure.
I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the best of His Creations, the closest to Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says,
"and We have instructed those who were given the Scripture before you and yourselves to fear Allah ." (Annisaa: 131)
Dear Believers,
Our Lord has created Men in the best of form and commanded His angels to prostrate to him. The Almighty has availed for him provisions and orderd him to be observant of rules of modesty and decency. He has provided  him means to cover the generative portions of his body, and ordered him to conceal his imperfections. Allah says, 
"O children of Adam, We have bestowed upon you clothing to conceal your private parts " (Al Aaraf: 26)
The modesty is seen as an exclusive character that Allah has endowed us with, one that puts us apart from animals and raises our status. It is also one of the attributes of Him, as mentioned in this Hadith:
"Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, is forbearing, modest and concealing, and He loves modesty and concealment." [Sunan Abu Dawood]
Modesty and decency is key to Adab or proper manners, a characteristic of the Messengers and Apostles of Allah. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said,
"(the Prophet) Moses was a shy person and used to cover his body completely because of his extensive shyness." [Sahih Al Bukhari]
The Prophet pbuh was known to supplicate to Allah saying,
"O Allah! Cover my weaknesses and set at ease my dismay." [Musnad Ahmad].
He would also prohibit Muslims not to look at others' private parts. About this, he said,
"a man should not see the private parts of another man, and a woman should not see the private parts of another woman." [Sahih Muslim]
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Just as improper to look at other's private parts, so immodest to track people's shortcomings. This is why decency involves also concealing one's and other's defects and sins and avoiding their disclosure. The Prophet pbuh said,
"All the sins of my followers will be forgiven except those of the Mujahirs (those who commit a sin openly or disclose their sins to the people). An example of such disclosure is that a person commits a sin at night and though Allah screens it from the public, then he comes in the morning, and says,  'O so-and-so, I did such-and-such (evil) deed yesterday,' though he spent his night screened by his Lord (none knowing about his sin) and in the morning he removes Allah's screen from himself." [Agreed upon]
Those who divulge their misdeeds are transgressing the borders of Allah. They are heedless of Allah's commands and daring enough as if to say: here we are we disobeying You, we do whatever we wish and fear You less.
O Servants of Allah, please be aware that revealing wrongdoings may entice others to follow the same path. It is a condemnable act which sees the Mujahir bearing the responsibility of leading people to commit sins like him. Yet who turns to Allah for repentance, asking for forgiveness and pledging to avoid disclosing sins, Allah may preserve him from disgrace. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said,
"The servant (whose fault) Allah conceals in this world, Allah would also conceal (his faults) on the Day of Resurrection." [Sahih Muslim]
Elsewhere, he said,
"Allah will bring a believer near Him and shelter him with His Screen and ask him:  Did you commit such-and-such sins? He will say: Yes, my Lord.  Did you commit such-and-such sins? He will say: Yes, my Lord. Did you commit such-and-such sins? He will say: Yes, my Lord. Allah will keep on asking him till he will confess all his sins and will think that he is ruined. Allah will say:  'I did screen your sins in the world and I forgive them for you today',  and then he will be given the book of his good deeds'." [Agreed upon]
Dear Muslims,
Whereas everyone can fall in error and has weaknesses, the best amongst us is the one who conceal others' faults and sins and offer to amend them through positive advice. By no means should they reveal them.  The Prophet pbuh said in this regard,
"whoever covers (the sin of) a Muslim, Allah will cover him (his sin) in this world and in the Hereafter." [Sahih Muslim].
However, the worst amongst us are those who probe into others' secrets and disclose them. Allah condemned them in many places as in this verse:
"indeed, those who like that immorality should be spread [or publicised] among those who have believed will have a painful punishment in this world and the Hereafter. And Allah knows and you do not know." (Annur:19)
For his part, our Master Muhammad pbuh warned us and showed the miserable end of those who would do so. He said,
 O you who are Muslims by tongue and faith has not penetrated your hearts! Do not harm Muslims nor pursue their imperfections, for whoever pursues the imperfections of his Muslim brother, Allah will pursue his imperfection and whosoever Allah pursues his imperfection, He will disgrace him." [Al Tirmidhi]
In the same regard, Imam Malik said, "I came across some folk in Medina who did not have faults before, but as they disclosed those of others, they got theirs revealed too. I also met some people who were known to have imperfections, but they kept others' defects secret. So no one revealed their faults either."
Dear Servants  of Allah,
If you are someone, who people come to for counselling or seeking medical service, such a thing that may require of them to discuss openly their problems or wrongdoings, then you have to keep their secrets. This is a trust that you have to fulfil, as mentioned by Hasan al Basri.
Indeed blessed are those who conceal people's secrets and did not pursue their imperfections. 
With this in mind, may Allah embellish us with honourable manners, preserve our integrity, and make us amongst Your righteous servants. May Allah also help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders:
"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59)
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran  and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please be aware that due to the spirit of modesty and decency virtues flourish and vices diminish. In like manner, bonds of love and charity strengthen. Please keep in mind also that a Muslim community is well-ordered, commending decency and purity. Herein imperfections shall be kept secret and misdeeds be forgiven. It is a welll-cohesive and harmonious environment where there should be no room for gossipers and scandalmongers.
So let us wish good for each other and cover people' defects and shortcomings. This way our society will go from strength to strength and personal sanctity is preserved. Allah says in this regard,
"but the clothing of righteousness - that is best." (Al Aaraf: 26)
Dear Believers,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says,
"Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56)
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said,
"for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." [Sahih Muslim]
He also said,
"nothing turns back the Decree except supplication." [Al Tirmidhi]
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
Oh Allah, perfect our morals and acts, purify our hearts, conceal our faults and forgive our misdeeds. Our Allah, forgive us our sins and remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says,
"and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45)
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic text.
 













