addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
 All praise is to Allah; He is the Source of Peace and Safety, Owner of Majesty and Honour, Bestower of favours and blessings. I duly praise Him and I bear witness that there is no deity except for Him. He invites to the Home of Peace and by remembering Him, the hearts rejoice and become humbly submissive to him.
 I also bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, a Prophet of peace and Allah's mercy to Creatures. He pbuh invoked his Lord in a way that is best, and was peace and safety to all. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, 
"O you who have believed, fear Allah as He should be feared and do not die except as Muslims [in submission to Him]." (Al Imarn: 102)
Dear Muslims,
Allah the most Exalted has created humans and enjoined upon them the mission of populating the earth and enriching it with life and civilisation. In so doing, He ordained them to establish peace and promote unity and tranquillity. He has prescribed Islam as religion for all as He says,
"indeed, the religion in the sight of Allah is Islam." (Al Imarn: 19)
Assalam [meaning peace- a word related etymologically to Islam] is also one of the glorious names of Allah as He describes Himself in the holy Quran:
"Allah is He, than Whom there is no other god;- the Sovereign, the Holy One, the Source of Peace (and Perfection)." (Al Hashr: 23)
And He is the Peace upon His Creation. He wants good things for them, inviting them to its virtues so as to win the Home of Peace. He says,
"and Allah invites to the Home of Peace ." (Yunus: 25)
Peace is a blessing for which our Prophet pbuh used to supplicate to Allah after each prayer.  According to Sayida Aisha,
 "when the Messenger of Allah pbuh said the Salam, he would sit only for as long as it took to say: 'Allahumma anta Assalam waminka Assalam. tabarakta ya dha Al Jalil Wa Al Ikram. (O Allah, You are Assalam, From You is all peace, blessed are You O Possessor of majesty and honour)'." [Muslim]
He pbuh also said,
"spread the greeting to people and you will be safe." [Ahmad]
That is, you keep away from discords and hatred and give way to mutual affection and reconciliation.
Dear Servants  of Allah, 
Peace is essential because it fulfils our interests and helps bring benefits to us. Moreover, it is a means by which to asses how civilised we are, ensure tranquillity, strengthen love amongst families, achieve reconciliation between people in dispute and be far from inflicting wrong on others. Indeed whoever seeks avenues for peace will be on the right path and get Allah's guidance. The Almighty says,
"by which Allah guides those who pursue His pleasure to the ways of peace and brings them out from darkness into the light, by His permission, and guides them to a straight path."(Al Maeda: 16)
O People,
Please remember that Peace was Allah's advice to His Apostles  and the guidance for His pious servants. Here is the story of the Prophet Ibrahim pbuh who was leniently calling on his father to believe in Allah alone. When the latter refused to obey, Ibrahim pbuh did not turn against his father, nor did he intimidate him. Instead he pbuh prayed to Allah saying,
"[Abraham] said, "Peace will be upon you. I will ask forgiveness for you of my Lord. Indeed, He is ever gracious to me." (Maryam: 47)
The holy Quran also tells us about a woman who was known for her wisdom as she pursued peace. About her, Allah says, 
"she said, "O eminent ones, indeed, to me has been delivered a noble letter. Indeed, it is from Solomon, and indeed, it reads: 'In the name of Allah, the Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful, Be not haughty with me but come to me in submission [as Muslims].' " She said, "O eminent ones, advise me in my affair. I would not decide a matter until you witness [for] me." (Annaml: 29-32)
When she discussed this matter with her people and court, they advised her to use force. They said, 
"They said, "We are men of strength and of great military might, but the command is yours, so see what you will command." (Annaml: 33)
She got back to herself and thought of an alternative, a solution that was likely to spare her people the destructive consequences of such a move. She chose to offer a gift wishing to soften the hearts and avoid the war. She said, 
"But indeed, I will send to them a gift and see with what [reply] the messengers will return." (Annaml: 35)
Her attitude proved to be wiser and was praised before and after her conversion to Islam. She was remembered for her intuition that a gesture as simple as offering a gift could have a powerful impact on people's reaction and reverse the course of events.
Thanks to her sensible decisions she led her people to succeed in this world and the next. She was quoted in surat Annaml as saying,
"my Lord, indeed I have wronged myself, and I submit with Solomon to Allah, Lord of the worlds." (Annaml: 44)
Dear Servants  of Allah,
The first words that our Prophet pbuh said when entering Medina were brief but were deep in meaning. They chanted love and called for peace. They had strong impact on hearts, ears and eyes. The first who felt their emphatic power was his Companion Abdullah bin Salam.
Speaking of his experience, he said, 
"when the Prophet pbuh came to Medina, the people rushed to meet him, and it was said,  'the Messenger of Allah pbuh has come! The Messenger of Allah pbuh has come! The Messenger of Allah has come!' Three times. 
 "I came with the people to see him, and when I saw his face clearly, I knew that his face was not the face of a liar. 
"The first thing I heard him say was when he said, 'O people! Spread (the greeting of) Salam, feed others, uphold the ties of kinship, and pray during the night when people are sleeping, and you will enter Paradise with Salam'." [Al Thirmidi]
As he pbuh explained to people, peace was his ultimate goal, inviting everyone to achieve it and act accordingly. A person asked Allah's Messenger pbuh,
"what (sort of) deeds in or (what qualities of) Islam are good?"  He replied, "to feed (the poor) and greet those whom you know and those whom you don't know." [Agreed upon]
This meaning took deep root in Companions' minds. Ammar bin Yasir said,
"whoever combines three qualities has got Iman (faith). That implies being far from wrong, attaining goodness and making efforts for the spread and continuity of peace and being just and generous." [Al Bukhari]
Commentators maintained that these virtues involve avoiding breaking ties, hatred and animosity and as such they mark one's genuine submission to Allah.
On another level peace is the basis of dealing with other people as our Prophet pbuh ordained by his Lord. The Almighty says in this regard,
"well, O Prophet, bear with them and say, "Peace to you!" Soon they shall know." (Azzukhruf: 89)
Here the Prophet was advised that he should neither curse his opponents for their scornful attitude and mockery, nor respond  in harsh words. He was asked instead to just wish them well and forgive them. Indeed these are the true characters of the faithful as highlighted in this verse:
"and when they hear ill speech, they turn away from it and say, "For us are our deeds, and for you are your deeds. Peace will be upon you; we seek not the ignorant." (Al Qasas: 55)
Peace is thus inclusive of behaviours and good morals advocated by Islam, ones that lead the Muslim to succeed and win Paradise. Allah says,
"but those who feared their Lord will be driven to Paradise in groups until, when they reach it while its gates have been opened and its keepers say, "Peace be upon you; you have become pure; so enter it to abide eternally therein," [they will enter]." (Azzumar: 73)
Having this in mind, may Allah grant peace and safety for our countries, people and families and perpetuate on us Your blessings of love, harmony and affection. May Allah also help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders:
"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59)
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran  and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public and know that one of  the foundations of coexistence is peace. Under its shade can people live in serenity, enjoy prosperity and feel safe. UAE is a blessed country that enjoys peace and stability and where everyone is secure, lives in respect and receives every esteem.
Truly this is a Divine blessing that we all need to protect, foster, and above all praise Allah the most Exalted for granting us with great founding fathers, who laid its basis, and the current leaders, who are promoting peace and  goodness for the sake of people as our Prophet pbuh called for. He said,
"shall I not tell you of something which, if you do it, you will love one another? Spread the greetings of Salam amongst yourselves." [Muslim]
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says,
"Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56)
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said,
"for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." [Muslim]
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. 
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
 May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them.
May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says,
"and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45)
Translation 
Mostapha El Mouloudi 
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













