addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has launched its strategic plan for 2014-2016 following approval from the Cabinet. Some of the objectives revolve around increasing religious awareness and Islamic culture and promoting values of tolerance and tolerance in the community.
It also set to highlight the civilisatioal image of mosques, increase their role and develop their staff, upgrade the Official Fatwa Centre, sustain endowment investment and real estate development according to Shariaa principles. Other headlines include improving Hajj and Umra services and provide various related administrative services in accordance to the best standards of quality.
Introducing the plan, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's Chairman, first prayed to Allah to confer well-being to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and grant success to his deputy Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Abu Dhabi Crown Prince and Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. Dr al Mazrouei also hailed the UAE leadership for their invaluable support to Awqaf, stressing that loyalty to the nation and its leaders is an obligation.
The ceremony was attended by HE Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Director General, the executive directors, branch and department directors and a host of Awqaf staff. The strategic plan came to translate the leadership's vision aiming at upgrading the government work to an international level of quality and delivering the best of services to Emiratis and residents. It is also in line with the UAE vision 2021. 
Dr al Mazrouei urged Awqaf's members of staff to fulfil their duties in the best of manner and work with a team spirit, saying that it is important to invest more efforts in devising work procedures with new concepts.
In undertaking its mission and developing its services to members of the public, Awqaf is adopting strategic planning to reach its goals, said he, adding that it was able in a record time to set a successful example in the Muslim world thanks to excellent implementation of its plans.
For his part, Dr al Kaabi emphasised the necessity to introduce the strategic plan for all staff and Awqaf strategic partners and make them familiar with it so they can contribute to it with their suggestions. He called on staff to collaborate efficiently to put the plan into administration in accordance to our wise leadership's vision, being the example to follow in all our affairs and procedures.
 













