addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 Awqaf and Zayed Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation (ZCHF) have jointly held a workshop at the ZCHF's headquarters in Abu Dhabi around strategies for improving Haj services this year.
It was attended by HE Ahmed al Dhaheri, ZCHF's Director General, HE Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, the Executive Director of Islamic Affairs at Awqaf, Head of the Official Haj Delegation (OHD), and a host of officials from OHD's member institutions as well as Haj operators.
 In a statement, al Dhaheri affirmed the keen interest of the foundation to cooperate with Awqaf and contribute to the development of Haj services by sharing its expertise in this domain. ZCHF has a long experience in sponsoring thousands of pilgrims, Emiratis and residents. He described the workshop as an opportunity to coordinate efforts for further developing Haj related services and improving skills of administrators in this sector.
Al Dhaheri introduced programmes, standards and procedures the foundation follows in selecting pilgrims and how it communicates with them inside UAE and in the Holy Sites.
Al Dhaheri also pointed to the importance of replacing old systems of management by more sophisticated ones with the goal of ensuring a better management of Haj services and meeting the expectations of various stakeholders. 
For his part, al Mazrouei hailed this initiative from ZCHF and extended his thanks to organisers. He highlighted the role of Awqaf in improving Haj related professions and upgrading Haj delegation performance as well as its activities.
He explained that the delegation had endeavoured to provide the best services to pilgrims inside UAE or in the Holy Sites and that his department had initiated many projects, including the introduction of electronic systems which pilgrims and operators have found convenient to their needs.  
On this occasion, al Mazrouei hailed the continuing support of the UAE wise leadership to Awqaf and Haj delegation.
On another note, he said that Islamic Affairs would organise a series of meetings with Haj operators and other partners to formulate a vision for further improving Haj services. In pursuance of this goal, Awqaf is open to proposals and any suggestion or feedback received via mail or online are duly taken into consideration. For the same purpose, he called on Haj operators to keep in touch with Awqaf. 
Al Mazrouei further explained that Islamic Affairs would launch an electronic system for Haj registration, which would be announced in media and Friday sermons. Selection will be based on priorities and criteria set by Awqaf and any applicant who meets them will be informed and assigned a unique ID number. Then he or she can choose one of the accredited campaigns they would like to register with, said al Mazrouei.
Haj campaigns were urged to announce their services through media after obtaining an approval from Awqaf. This step is important, he said, because it will help pilgrims know more about the type of existing services and choose which campaign they can afford. 
The workshop discussed other topics, including the Cabinet decision no 30/31 for 2013 concerning the regulations of Haj and Umra services and the amendments relative to them, early electronic registration, selection criteria and their conformity to those of other sponsoring institutions in addition to  procedures for allocating pilgrims' quota  to various Haj operators and entities.  
 













