addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status. When He wills good for a person, He causes him to understand the religion, and raises his status in the highest ranks of Paradise amongst the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour. He is the most Generous; He taught man that which he knew not.
 I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. He is the most compassionate, the most Merciful; He taught the Quran, created man, and taught him eloquence.
 I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, to whom Allah has revealed the Book and wisdom and has taught him that which he did not know. And ever has the favour of Allah upon his Messenger been great. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says,
"And fear Allah. And Allah teaches you. And Allah is Knowing of all things." (Al Baqara: 182)
Dear Muslims,
Allah, the Exalted is He, has erected the heavens without pillars that you can see and adorned it with stars. He made the earth stretched and liveable as He says,
"so walk among its slopes" (Al Mulk: 15)
 He also says with reference to His limitless Might and Power:
"vision perceives Him not, but He perceives [all] vision; and He is the Subtle, the Acquainted." (Al Anaam: 103)
No wonder then, that His knowledge encompasses all and everything, and that He makes his Creation in the best of form. He says,
"Who perfected everything which He created and began the creation of man from clay." (Sajda: 7)
The same is accentuated in the following verse:
"it is Allah who has created seven heavens and of the earth, the like of them. [His] command descends among them so you may know that Allah is over all things competent and that Allah has encompassed all things in knowledge." (Attalaq: 12)
Indeed, there is no better than the universe to speak of Allah's Ayas and unquestionable existence. That is, He is the Lord of the Worlds: the heavens and the earth. There is no doubt either that everything in between them confirms the fact that He is the one and only Creator. He says,
"this is the creation of Allah. So show Me what those other than Him have created. Rather, the wrongdoers are in clear error." (Luqman: 11)
Dear Believers,
The Universe is abounding with facts for us to probe. So whoever delves into them, surely will be guided to the ultimate truth of the existence of the Almighty Allah. Moreover, He will see his Iman (faith) in his Lord increased and would say as reported in the holy Quran:
"our Lord, You did not create this aimlessly; exalted are You [above such a thing]; then protect us from the punishment of the Fire." (Al Imran: 191)
Indeed, Iman gets stronger through knowledge of scientific truths around us, which by the grace of Allah, guides us towards deep understanding of His creatures and other signs of His in the vast universe. In this regard, He says,
"then do they not look at the camels - how they are created? And at the sky - how it is raised? And at the mountains - how they are erected? And at the earth - how it is spread out?  So remind, [O Muhammad]; you are only a reminder." (Al Ghashiya: 17-21)
Indeed, what would be a greater gift than such an understanding that leads us to the right path, lets us know about Allah's sublime status, duly extol Him and pray to Him. In this respect Allah addressed His Messenger pbuh saying,
"so know, [O Muhammad], that there is no deity except Allah and ask forgiveness for your sin and for the believing men and believing women."  (Muhammad: 19)
 However, ignorance of Him causes us to fail in appraising Him as it ought to be, hence drifting away from the correct path. Allah says,
"and they did not appraise Allah with true appraisal" (Al Anaam:91)
Dear Muslims,
Knowledge as well as scientific research brought us many more benefits, causing an impressive transformation of life on earth. It has offered solutions to us. If our ancestors led a basic life, we are, however, able to explore space and communicate across cultures and distance matters less here. In this process of fast and beneficial change, we are reaping the gains of science and research, permitting us to enjoy a better life and further contribute to it in many aspects. 
Dear Servants of Allah,
With its clear advantages, science is highly important, so much so that the holy Quran has urged us to harness its means in the first of its verses. It says,
"recite in the name of your Lord who created -created man from a clinging substance. Recite, and your Lord is the most Generous -Who taught by the pen -taught man that which he knew not." (Al Alaq:1-5)
These verses motivated Muslims through past ages to pursue the path of learning and undertake research in various branches of science, including their practical implementation. Thus, they laid the foundation of many fields of study, contributed to more than a knowledge system and thereby paved the way to the development of scholarship culture that had benefited humanity at large.
In medicine, early Muslims, inspired by the Hadith saying,
"seek medical treatment, for Allah, has not created any disease but He has created a cure for it." [Musnad Ahmad]
embarked upon the discovery of medicines for ills and were the first to endorse research using empirical methods. Thanks to their efforts, many branches of specialised medical practices and practitioners had emerged. There were, for example, Kahhals (equivalent to modern concept of ophthalmologists), and surgeons, Hajjams, the first who invented medical incision tools. In the same field, The Canon of Medicine of Ibn Sina (Avicenna) remained an influential reference for centuries.
In the evolution of many sciences, credit goes to Muslims scholars, including al Khwarizmi, who founded algebra; Jaber Ibn Hayan and al Razi in contributing to the development of chemistry; al Bayruni and al Hamadani in geology and geography. The latter classified many types of minerals and crystals. Muslims were also active in defining many concepts in the fields of mechanics, optics and acoustics.
The contribution of Muslims to science and technology helped in establishing the basis for modern science. The impact of their work is still felt and serves people. It is the kind of actions that was hailed by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he said,
"the best person is the one who benefits all human beings." [Musnad al Shihab]
With this in mind, O Allah, guide us to know what we are ignorant of, benefit us of all what You have taught us and increase our knowledge. O Allah, help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders:
"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Allah as it should be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Allah- Exalted is He- has blessed this country with scholarship capabilities, everything from schools, universities, institutes, libraries to scientific research infrastructure. All of these have been staffed with experts, teachers and researchers. With these facilities in hand, you are, therefore, urged to pursue learning to attain higher status and be amongst those who do good.
You are also invited to encourage your sons and daughters to undertake research, develop in them perseverance, and offer them valuable prizes, appropriate grants and endowments. Please be aware that scientific research is one of the best work to offer to the nation and people, not to forget it is one of the reasons for entering Paradise. The Prophet pbuh said,
"whoever takes a path upon which to obtain knowledge, Allah makes the path to Paradise easy for him." [Muslim]
As our Khutba is on the merits of knowledge and scientific research, it is worthwhile mentioning that today coincided with the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Emirates Center for Strategic Studies and Research. The Center undertakes scientific research and organises cultural activities and events all round the year, which are open to public.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says,
"Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56)
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said,
"for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." [Muslim]
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says,
"and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45)
Translation
 Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













