addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the One and Only God; He neither begets nor is born. We extol Him as He enjoins on us to treat our parents with utmost care, and be grateful to them. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
 I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the wellspring of mercy and our guide to prosperity in both worlds. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says,
"O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1)
Dear Muslims,
Islam has urged us to deal nicely with those who have treated us with kindness and prize them with the best that we can afford as stated in this verse,
"is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Arrahman: 60)
From this perspective, our parents' favour on us is great because through them we were brought to life and under their wing of compassion, we grew up until we reached maturity and became independent. As such, they are a Divine blessing and a pathway to Heaven. Respecting them is their right and is our duty towards them as decreed by Allah the most Compassionate.
"and your Lord has decreed that you not worship except Him, and to parents, good treatment." (Al Aisraa: 23)
Appreciating parents is the kind of obligation likened to a covenant and clearly associated to obedience to Allah. The Almighty says in this regard,
"and [recall] when We took the covenant from the Children of Israel, [enjoining upon them], 'Do not worship except Allah; and to parents do good' ."(Al Baqara: 83)
In another verse, He says,
"worship Allah and associate nothing with Him, and to parents do good." (Annisaa: 36)
Amongst all people, parents rank before others, deserving love and the best company. But one thing should be stressed here is that while both parents enjoy similar importance in Islam, the mother comes first. Evidence of this is to be found in many places in both Quran and Sunna.
It was narrated that a man came to Allah's Messenger pbuh and said, "O Allah's Messenger pbuh, who is more entitled to be treated with the best companionship by me?"
The Prophet pbuh said, "Your mother."The man said,"Who is next?" The Prophet said, "Your mother."The man said, "Who is next?"The Prophet pbuh said, "Your mother."The man said,"Who is next?"The Prophet pbuh said, "Your father." [Muslim]
Dear Believers,
Indeed, who else would deserve every respect, honour and obedience than your caring and compassionate mother? Did not she bear you in pain during pregnancy, at labour and [later on]?The Almighty says,
"and We have enjoined upon man, to his parents, good treatment. His mother carried him with hardship and gave birth to him with hardship, and his gestation and weaning [period] is thirty months." (Al Ahqaf: 151)
Moreover, was not it for your sake that she saw her strength and health dwindling as she was devotedly taking care of you? Did not she willingly offer to care for you and attend to your cleanness at the expense of her own comfort? How many times did she stay up sleepless because you were ill, and perhaps out of sympathy she felt pain more than you did? Reasons are many and the obligation lies on you to give your mothers particular gratitude and respect. And please remember that the way to paradise lies beneath your mothers' feet as our Prophet pbuh said,
"I slept and I saw myself in Paradise; therein I heard the voice of a reader reciting [Quran]. I said who is this? They said, "this is Haritha bin al Nuaman." The Prophet pbuh said, "because of his righteousness, he earned this status in Paradise." [Musnad Ahmad]
Haritha was known for being highly respectful to and caring for his mother.
Appreciating the mother was also highlighted by Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, when he said, "I know not of any action so dearer to Allah as honouring the mother."
Not less importantly, the father has a special position too and whoever seeks his contentment by valuing him in the correct way will be amongst the fortunate; those who enter the Paradise. Truly, our fathers deserve much gratitude as they protected us when we were still tiny and weak, guided us as we grew up, and spent time and money to raise us properly. The prophet pbuh said,
"(honoring) one's father may lead one to enter through the best of the gates of Paradise; so take care of your parents, (it is so, whether you take care of them) or not." [Ibn Maja]
O Servants of Allah,
Appreciating parents was always highly regarded by Allah's Prophets and Messengers. The Prophet Ibrahim pbuh was one of the best examples of obedience to one's parents whose account is depicted in Surat Maryam:
"and mention in the Book [the story of] Abraham. Indeed, he was a man of truth and a prophet. [Mention] when he said to his father, 'O my father, why do you worship that which does not hear and does not see and will not benefit you at all?
"O my father, indeed there has come to me of knowledge that which has not come to you, so follow me; I will guide you to an even path. O my father, do not worship Satan. Indeed Satan has ever been, to the Most Merciful, disobedient. O my father, indeed I fear that there will touch you a punishment from the Most Merciful so you would be to Satan a companion [in Hellfire]'." (Maryam: 41-45)
The holy Quran also reports how respectful the Messenger of Allah Yahya pbuh was to his parents. It says about his qualities as being,
"dutiful to his parents, and he was not a disobedient tyrant." (Maryam: 14)
The same Surah also describes the way the Prophet Isa (Jesus) pbuh honoured his mother Maryam, the pure and chaste, when he was quoted as saying,
"and [made me] dutiful to my mother, and He has not made me a wretched tyrant." (Maryam: 32)
Dear Muslims,
One way to honour parents is by obeying them and being grateful. For anyone who praises his parents praises Allah the Almighty, Who says,
"be grateful to Me and to your parents; to Me is the [final] destination." (Luqman: 14).
Praying for them after Salah is also beneficial and is as equal as thanking them, said Sufyan bin Uyana. At essence, respecting parents is to have a good attitude when dealing with them, that is, neither should we treat them harshly, nor use any speech that may hurt their feelings. The Almighty says,
"say not to them a word of disrespect, nor shout at them but address them in terms of honour." (Al Israa: 23)
In like manner, we should be available to attend to their needs, make their life easier, support them and spend on them generously. Yet, let us keep in mind here that no matter how much we may offer to our parents, that can hardly make up for what they have done for us. The Prophet said,
"a son does not repay what he owes his father unless he buys him (the father) in case he is a slave and then emancipates him." [Muslim]
Please keep in mind also that when they get older and weaker, our responsibility increases. Those who value their parents will, by the grace of Allah, win Paradise, while those who fail to do so are the unfortunate, who will be humbled and denied of it. The Prophet pbuh said,
"let him be humbled, let him be humbled, let him be humbled." it was said, "Allah's Messenger, who is he?" He said, "he who finds his parents in old age, either one or both of them, and does not enter Paradise." [Muslim]
Also remember your parents with gratitude when they pass away. Pray and supplicate to Allah for their forgiveness. Keep in touch with their relatives, fulfil their wills, and value their friends. It was narrated that a man from Banu Salmah came to the Prophet pbuh and said,
"O Messenger of Allah, is there any kindness left that I can do to my parents after their death?He replied: "yes, you can invoke blessings on them, forgiveness for them, carry out their final instructions after their death, join ties of relationship which are dependent on them, and honour their friends." [Abu Dawood]
Knowing that, let us pray to Allah that we will do our best to respect our fathers and mothers and be always keen to please them. May Allah also help us to obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders:
"O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59)
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that honouring parents has great social benefits. In it, values of kinship are reflected in the finest form and thank to it, we can see our provisions and livelihood become greater. So by respecting parents we also ensure stronger family bonds that extend wider to society as a whole. Furthermore, it is deemed an act of piety that prolongs one's life and increases rewards, as mentioned in this Hadith:
"nothing extends one's life span but righteousness." [Tirmidhi]
Those who serve and obey their parents shall reap the benefits of their actions and can rest assured that Allah will bless them with children who will treat them nicely. In this regard the Prophet said,
"be kind to your parents and thus your children will be kind to you." [Al Tabarani]
Dear sons and daughters, this is an invitation to you to do your best to honour your parents and win their contentment. Indeed pleasing your parents go hand in hand with pleasing Allah and please remember that if you disobey your parents you have disobeyed Allah.
Dear Servants of Allah,
You are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pubh for Allah says,
"indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56)
On the same matter, the Prophet pubh said,
"for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." [Muslim]
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pubh, his family and all his Companions? May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favor to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us amongthe despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says,
"and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45)
 
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













