addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has honoured winners of this year's holy Quran competition who attended its Quranic centres across UAE.
Present in the ceremony were HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, a host of branch directors and heads of departments as well as the winners in various categories.
In a statement, Dr al Mazrouei congratulated them and lauded, on this occasion, the support that Awqaf and the Quranic centres are receiving from the UAE wise leadership. He attributed the achievements by the Quranic centres to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, thanking him for his continous support and keen interest.
Dr al Mazroeui shed light on the role of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, in encouraging Emiratis and residents to engage in memorising the holy Quran. Late Sheikh Zayed gave his instructions to build centres for this purpose and his initiative was a pioneering one; it invited young people, male and female to join memorisation sessions in schools during summer vacations, said he.
 At the end of his speech, Dr al Mazrouei urged parents to encourage their sons and daughters to join Awqaf Quranic centres with the goal of producing a generation of youth that are aware of the authentic principles of Islam as taught in the holy Quran. In this regard, he stressed that learning Quran is one of the beneficial actions that is highly rewarded by Allah, and is of prominence today. In so doing, we are able to respond to an urgent need for consolidating meanings of moderation and adherence to the lofty principles of Islam, as well as the necessity to help our children resist alien thoughts and foreign ideology. 
For his part, Dr al Kaabi stated that students from Awqaf Quranic centres won first ranks, only to prove the keen interest of the UAE leaders to these centres which are a source of pride to us. He added that the more the youth are attached to the holy Quran, the more they acquire the best of manners and morality. He congratulated the winners and members of staff at Awqaf Quranic centres for the efforts they made and their invaluable contribution.  
On another note, the fifth edition of its memorisation contest is now open for registration from March 16 to 31, 2014. It consists of four phases: the pre-qualifiers (phase one) to kick off on Tuesday April 1, 2014 at branches' level, pre-qualifiers (phase two), and the finals which will lead to the final day capping the competition.
This year's contest was upgraded by increasing the prize value and the addition of five new categories and one extra category for Emiratis registered with Awqaf centres. Thus depending on each category, contestants will be tested whether they master both recitation and Tajweed of the entire Quran, twenty, ten and five successive parts of it, as well as the first part of Surat Annabaa (The Tidings). Participants were divided into two groups: male and female. Registration was also open for Emirati university students as well as inmates of UAE penitentiary institutions and people with disability.
The competition will also feature special awards to memorisers from Awqaf Quranic centres and the best centre, in addition to the best media content on UAE efforts in the service of the holy Quran. This category is reserved for Emirati university students only. Last category will award the best smart application dedicated to memorising Quran. 
 













