addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon 
All praise is due to Allah, Who has made hope in believers' hearts a glimpse of light and guidance. Whoever is content with what he has and seeks provision from His Lord alone, Allah will give him abundantly.
I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him, and the master of optimists. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab: 70-71).
Dear Servants  of Allah,
It was an honour from our Lord that He elected us to worship him alone and obey Him. Out of His compassion, neither does He blame us if we forget, nor does He ask us to do more than we can. Moreover, He has offered to forgive if we turn to him and repent. Since our Lord has created humans and others to bestow His mercy, we must put trust in and repent to Him as He says, "Say, 'O My servants who have transgressed against themselves [by sinning], do not despair of the mercy of Allah. Indeed, Allah forgives all sins. Indeed, it is He who is the Forgiving, the Merciful'." (Azzumar: 53).
The verse invites you to remove any feelings of despair that may fill your heart and mind, and stay strong in the midst of adversities and anguish since Allah's mercy is all encompassing. To achieve this, you need to stay positive, trust Allah and most of all have high hope in Him. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "Allah- Exalted is He- says,  'I am just as My servant believes me to be. If he thought well, of me, it will be his, and he thought bad, of me, it would be his'."
Knowing that, if you think well of Allah and seek to achieve your goals positively, then you are surely going to succeed. It was reported that the Prophet pbuh, when he was on his way to do something, would like to hear such compliments like: O wise! O fortunate!  This was told to him to give him a lift of hope and boost his morale.
From what has been said, optimism describes also one's state of mind and ability to appreciate words of encouragement. These tend to strengthen determination and stamina. It was narrated by abu Huraira that the Prophet pbuh said, "I heard Allah's Messenger pbuh as saying, 'there is no divination but the best type is the good omen.  It was said to Allah's Messenger pbuh, 'what is good omen?' Thereupon he said, 'a good word which one of you hears'."
Dear Muslims,
Good omen is part and parcel of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh's rightly guidance. He used to like hearing words or anything that may inspire good feelings of hope. For example, he advised us to choose nice names for our children, ones that make us feel happy and through which we wish well-being for them.
On the narration of al-Musaiyab that his father (Hazn bin Wahb) went to the Prophet pbuh and the Prophet  pbuh asked (him), "what is your name?"  He replied,  "my name is Hazn." The Prophet pbuh said, "you are Sahl."  He replied, "I will not change the name with which my father has named me." Ibn al-Musaiyab added, "we have had roughness (in character) ever since."
Of the Prophetic traditions also, he pbuh used to pray for the sick and wish him recovery. It was reported  on this matter that the Prophet pbuh paid a visit to a sick bedouin, and when he pbuh visit a patient  would say, "no harm will befall you! May Allah cure you! May Allah cure you!" So the Prophet pbuh said to the bedouin. "no harm will befall you. May Allah cure you!"  The bedouin said,  "you say, may Allah cure me? no, for it is a fever which boils in (the body of) an old man, and will lead him to the grave."  The Prophet pbuh said, "yes, then may it be as you say."
In an interpretation of the Hadith, scholars said that a Muslim when visiting a sick person should comfort him and increase his hope in life. This is likley to bring him or her relief and peace of mind.
In like manner, the Prophet pbuh warns against negative feelings likened to a disease spread by those, who have self-destructive character due to their pointless sense of inhibitions and  frustrations. He pbuh said, "when a man says people have perished, he is the one who has suffered that fate most." That is, he is the most ruined of them all, or can be the cause of their ill-fate.
Anyone with such a pessimist view is likely to focus on people's flaws and make them public. He would describe other people as corrupt or destroyed, and so on. In so doing, he is the one, indeed, mostly ruined and miserable, causing him to increase his misdeeds. His wrongful acts may also lead him to feel proud of himself and be taken by illusive sense of superiority, seeing himself above others.
In contrast, those who think good about people tend to have a positive attitude and so deserve every merit. Their good disposition is in line with Islamic teachings and shall be recompensed accordingly. Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "a Muslim should not think ill of a speech by another person, while it is possible he can find something good in it."
Dear Believers,
Thinking positively can further help us seek various avenues for good work and open for us wider horizons of hope. It likewise removes laziness and replaces it with vigour and energy. Truly, optimists go to work satisfied, ready to do their duties sincerely. If we have these qualities we can increase our good deeds and live happily. Allah says, "whoever does righteousness, whether male or female, while he is a believer - We will surely cause him to live a good life, and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according to the best of what they used to do." (Annahl: 97).
The optimist has a good life because he is ambitious person, loving to his family and nation, friendly, cheerful, sober in his actions and successful in his dealings. Moreover, he trusts in Allah Who, by His Grace, will crown his efforts with great rewards in return.The Almighty says, "indeed, Allah does not allow to be lost the reward of the doers of good." (Attawba: 120).
Dear Believers,
Rest assured that optimists will get reward because they engage in good actions. They believe in Allah as their Lord and accept whatever destiny He may decree upon them. They also expect glad tidings from Him, continually seek to achieve their goals and shun despair.
This was the case with the Prophets and Messengers, peace be upon them. Let us mention here the story of Yaqub, pbuh, who never lost hope to meet his son again after so many years of separation. He never ceased to advise his sons to track any news of the missed Yusuf and his brother. In their pursuit, he told them not to feel frustrated but to keep on. Allah quoted him as saying, "O my sons, go and find out about Yusuf and his brother and despair not of relief from Allah. Indeed, no one despairs of relief from Allah except the disbelieving people." (Yusuf: 87).
Yaqub pbuh remained persevere in his search until Allah achieved his wish. Allah says in this regard, "and when the bearer of good tidings arrived, he cast it over his face, and he returned [once again] seeing. He said, "Did I not tell you that I know from Allah that which you do not know?" (Yusuf: 96).
One more example is of our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, a role model for us all. He was known to be patient and positive about guiding people. He used to pray for them and  forgive them when they did something wrong. He was once harmed by people from Taif and the Angel of the Mountains called, greeted him,  and then said, "O Muhammad! Order what you wish. If you like, I will let Al-Akh-Shabain (i.e. two mountains) fall on them."  The Prophet pbuh said,  "no but I hope that Allah will let them beget children who will worship Allah Alone, and will worship None besides Him."
Dear Muslims,
Please reflect on such a wise response by the Prophet pbuh that underlied the commendable spirit of hope he always held. No wonder that he pbuh was sent to us as mercy for the two Worlds and a Messenger to execute his mission, which had never been easy. For its sake, he pbuh had to endure opposition and hardship. Whatever the circumstances, he remained steadfast, believing in his Lord's promise and staying optimistic. By Allah's grace and guidance he pbuh spread the message of Islam to manifest it over all religion.
Truly blessed are those who remain optimistic and think positively, take initiative and put trust in Allah. Also blessed are those who obey Him and avoid His prohibitions.
With this in mind,  O Allah, help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).   
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran  and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that optimism shall be reflected on the community's prosperity and stability. It contributes to a healthy society where individuals enjoy high spirit and are capable of overcoming challenges by staying hopeful.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "if the Final Hour comes while you have a palm-cutting in your hands and it is possible to plant it before the Hour comes, you should plant it."
Such is the kind of people, who are fortunate and shall receive Allah's reward in this life and the next.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and  continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













