addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Sender of the Book, the Refuge for everyone who repents. He gives the patients their reward without measure. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. He is the Lord of the heavens and the earth and whatever is between them.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He was the most patient amongst his people; he prayed for forgiveness day and night. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
Allah sent the holy Quran to our Master Muhammad pbuh-the seal of the Prophet- to bring out people from darkness into the light and from misery to happiness. He the Almighty has also made the Quran a guide to the pious and wherein He recounts stories of former and later people, expressing glad tidings and vows, lessons and teachings. There is no doubt then that whoever follows it will be rightly guided.
On its own merits, it is a blessed book that Allah has ordered us to read and work according to its ethics and teachings. He also instructed us to understand deeply the meanings of its verses, as told in: "[this is] a blessed Book which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that they might reflect upon its verses and that those of understanding would be reminded." (Sad: 29). In another verse, The Almighty highlights the importance of relating to His Book for it is a wellspring of guidance and invaluable lessons. For that, it is also a reminder for believers, as Allah says, "and each [story] We relate to you from the news of the messengers is that by which We make firm your heart. And there has come to you, in this, the truth and an instruction and a reminder for the believers." (Hud: 12).
In this sense, the holy Quran relates instructions that urge us to think constantly of our Creator and His beautiful promises to us. But it serves also as a warner of His weighty punishment to wrong doers.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Many rich meanings of this sort and others are related in Surat Sad (the letter Saad) through strories of some Apostles of Allah by depicting their noble values and morality. It tells, for example, about the story of the Prophet Dawood (David), pbuh, who was endowed with a beautiful voice and powerful might that the iron was made soft for him. He was sent the Psalms (Zabur in Arabic) as indicated in the Quran: "and to David We gave the book [of Psalms]. " (al Israa: 55). 
Mountains and birds were also made obedient to him and along with him they prayed to Allah. He says, "and We subjected the mountains to exalt [Us], along with David and [also] the birds. And We were doing [that]." (Al Anbiyaa: 79). Additionally, Dawood pbuh was given wisdom and eloquence and received the testimony of his Lord: "and remember Our servant, David, the possessor of strength; indeed, he was one who repeatedly turned back [to Allah ]." (Sad: 17).
As well as remembring Allah and repenting to him, the Prophet Dawood pbuh used also to pray and  fast devotedly. Allah says, "and he asked forgiveness of his Lord and fell down bowing [in prostration] and turned in repentance [to Allah]" (Sad: 24). This earned him higher status in Pradise thanks to his repentence and just rule, as mentioned further in this verse: "so We forgave him that; and indeed, for him is nearness to Us and a good place of return." (Sad: 25).
Some accounts of other prophets in the same Sura and elswhere will be mentioned in the following. The Messenger  of Allah Sulaiman (Solomon) supplicated to his Lord saying,  "My Lord, forgive me and grant me a kingdom such as will not belong to anyone after me. Indeed, You are the Bestower." (Sad: 30). His prayers were answered as Allah gave him some of His might. Thus, he was taught the language of birds and was able to hear ants. He was also made to him the wind blowing by his command, gently, whenever he directed, and also the devils [of jinn]-every builder and diver.
For this evident bounties, he praised Allah saying, "so [Solomon] smiled, amused at her speech, and said, "My Lord, enable me to be grateful for Your favor which You have bestowed upon me and upon my parents and to do righteousness of which You approve. And admit me by Your mercy into [the ranks of] Your righteous servants." (Annaml: 19). He pbuh, therefore, did everything to please His Lord who said about his Messenger pbuh, "an excellent servant, indeed he was one repeatedly turning back [to Allah ]." (Sad: 30).           Dear Believers,
For his part, the Prophet Ayub (Job) pbuh was an epitome of patience; someone who accepted his fate and lot willingly. About whom, Allah says, "and [mention] Job, when he called to his Lord, "Indeed, adversity has touched me, and you are the Most Merciful of the merciful." (Al Anbiyaa: 83).
It is mentioned in the Quran that the Prophet Ayub pbuh used to be a rich and healthy man. He was generous and compassionate. But later he was scourged by illness, poverty and all sorts of calamities. Though badly affected as such, he remained trustful in Allah and prayed to Him. The Almighty says, "and remember Our servant Job, when he called to his Lord, "Indeed, Satan has touched me with hardship and torment." (Sad: 41). This is to show to what extent he accepted the fate decreed upon him and declare his humble character. Throughout his hard times of sickness and misery, he never lost hope in Allah, and always turn to him for mercy. Scholars explained the phrase: Satan has touched me, which the Prophet Ayub pbuh said in his supplication, a polite form of addressing since all things, whether good or bad, are from Allah the Almighty.
No sooner had he finished his prayers than he received his Lord's glad tidings: "[So he was told], "Strike [the ground] with your foot; this is a [spring for] a cool bath and drink." (Sad: 42). The Almighty also says, "so We responded to him and removed what afflicted him of adversity. And We gave him [back] his family and the like thereof with them as mercy from Us and a reminder for the worshippers [of Allah ]." (Al Anbiyaa: 84). It is indeed the reward of those who stay patient and repent repeatedly to their Lord. So let us be obedient to Allah's will and turn to Him humbly. And in no way must we complain about Him when we are sick or in distress as people wishing us good.
Avoiding this will increase our deeds and so by Allah's grace we enter Paradise. In this regard, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "when someone is ill, Allah-Exalted is He- sends two angels to him." He said, "they look at what he says to his visitors.  If he praises Allah and lauds Him, when they come to him, they take that up to Allah, the Mighty, the Majestic, and He knows best, and He says, 'If I make my servant die, I will make him enter the Garden. If I heal him, I will replace his flesh with better flesh and his blood with better blood and I will efface his evil actions'." 
Dear Servants of Allah,
Other teachings that can be learned from Surat Sad is the value of Dhikr and asking for forgiveness as when Prophet Dawood pbuh had asked his Lord for forgiveness, and bowed in repentance to Him, or when Prophet Sulaiman pbuh was quoted as saying,  "My Lord, forgive me and grant me a kingdom such as will not belong to anyone after me. Indeed, You are the Bestower." (Sad: 35). As you may see, asking for forgiveness is praised in many places to be an act which is committed to by people who seek repentance and seek Allah's pardon. Knowing that, please keep in mind that forgiveness is easy to get and through which you can obtain mercy, overcome hardship and remove your sins. On this matter our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "by Allah! I ask for forgiveness from Allah and turn to Him in repentance more than seventy times a day."
In another Hadith he pbuh said, "O people, seek repentance from Allah. Verily, I seek repentance from Him a hundred times a day."
With this in mind, may Allah make our faith firm and make us among those who inherit Your Paradise. May Allah help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." Annisaa: 59).  
 May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Surat Sad describes the bliss of Paradise. The latter is something as no eye has ever seen, no ear has ever heard of, and nobody has ever thought of. Allah says in this regard,  "this is a reminder. And indeed, for the righteous is a good place of return." (Sad: 49). Here Allah the Almighty would like to honour His righteous servants and make their stories good examples to remember. Indeed whoever obeys Allah and His Messengers will receive the best recompense in the Hereafter, which is the: "Gardens of perpetual residence, whose doors will be opened to them." (Sad: 50).
Dear Believers,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise. O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













