addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Islamic Affairs has announced it is considering the introduction of a new electronic system via its website to receive and handle pilgrims' applications. The system is intended to assess applications for selecting 5,000 pilgrims and another thousand applicants will be placed on the waiting list. This process will see no interference from Hajj operators.  
The executive director for Islamic Affairs at Awqaf and head of the Official Hajj Delegation (OHD), Mr Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, said that priority would be given to Emiratis who had never performed Hajj then to older persons. This came during a meeting between Awqaf and Hajj and Umrah operators' representatives at Zayed Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation (ZCHF)'s headquarters in Abu Dhabi last week.
Mr al Mazrouei explained that once the system is up and running applicants can log on to Awqaf website and fill out the necessary forms. They need to provide their personal information, medical history and if they need a companion and or special amenities, among others. Every registered person will be assigned a reference number for follow up. He further explained that the electronic system would allow for applicants to choose three operators amongst 150 accredited, stressing that this procedure is aimed at accelerating the processing of transactions, their electronic screening and review. Another advantage, he said would be minimising the cost driven by true competition amongst Hajj campaigns. ­­
On another note, the Islamic Affairs has set the quota of pilgrims they can take between a minimum of 50 and a maximum of 200 pilgrims. This is in order to ensure quality services are provided and at reasonable prices.  "The overall quota for UAE this year is no more than 4,982 pilgrims, which is in line with the guidelines set by the Saudi Hajj authorities due to the ongoing expansion work at Tawaf sites," said he.
Owners of Hajj campaigns must also satisfy other requirements like medical fitness especially for those aged between 65 and 79. Mr al Mazrouei said that any owner in this age segment needs to attach a medical check-up certificate to prove he is able enough to manage his campaign. He added that Awqaf was aware of about 45 owners whose age is above 70 and who may not be able enough to handle day to day management of their Hajj campaigns. Mr al Mazrouei also stressed that the campaign manager and staff should be Emiratis in order to form a successful team. 
The objective behind this initiative is to oversee the implementation of laws and ordinances and limit their infringement as well as ensure the regulation of pilgrims' quota is respected in well-ordered manner, he said.
 Mr al Mazrouei pointed out that because some campaigns last year were low in number, 16 pilgrims only, they had failed to offer good quality services as expected. The new regulations came just to correct this situation, said he.
To formulate a vision for achieving further excellence in offering good quality Haj services, he mentioned that Islamic Affairs would organise a series of meetings with Haj operators and other partners. Awqaf is therefore open to positive proposals and suggestions that will serve development and meet expectations, said al Mazrouei. He assured everyone that their suggestions sent via mail or online are duly examined, and invited Haj operators to keep in touch with Awqaf.
In the same meeting, campaigns' representatives were briefed on decisions by the Saudi Hajj authorities for this year's season, which urges all procedures to be done at a head of time and no later than May. This includes everything from registering for Haj to booking accommodation in the Holy sites. Mr al Mazrouei said that Awqaf would announce timings for various procedures through media and Friday sermons.
On this occasion, Mr al Mazrouei hailed the kind support to Awqaf and Haj delegation from the UAE wise leadership.
For his part, Mr Mohammed Saeed al Qubaisi, head of projects at ZCHF's, said that the Foundation is ready to join efforts with Awqaf by offering its experience, and further contribute to initiatives conducive to improving Hajj services. He noted that the Foundation had accumulated a rich expertise thanks to its Haj sponsorship programme, which has benefitted thousands of Emiratis and residents.
 













