addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Most Compassionate and Most Merciful. His Mercy has encompassed all Creations. We adore Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and status and acknowledge His limitless compassion. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the Seal of Prophets. He was sent to elevate the status of ties of kinship, and bring glad tidings, as sublime as the Paradise, to those who observe them. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him. Be compassionate to one another and reflect on what He says in this verse: "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah , through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
Dear Muslims,
Our Lord has created humans and made them peoples and tribes to know each other and enter into relations as He says, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another." (Al Hujurat: 13). This has not only led them to promote coexistence, communication, solidarity and synergy, but also has brought them together to further harmony, cohesion and mutual feelings of compassion. Our guide Muhammad pbuh said, "you see the believers as regards their being merciful among themselves and showing love among themselves and being kind, resembling one body, so that, if any part of the body is not well then the whole body shares the sleeplessness (insomnia) and fever with it."
To achieve such a cohesive and harmonious community, we are urged, first and foremost, to observe ties of kinship. The latter is seen as a sign of Iman (faith) and a good example of morality in Islam. the Prophet pbuh said, "he who believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him maintain good the ties of blood relationship."
Allah-Almighty is He-has raised the status of these relations, promising good lot those who honour them and warned those who disregard them. On the narration of Abu Huraira that the Prophet pbuh said, "Allah created the creations, and when He finished from His creations, Arrahim, i.e., womb said, '(O Allah) at this place I seek refuge with You from all those who sever me (i.e. sever the ties of Kith and kin). Allah said, 'yes, won't you be pleased that I will keep good relations with the one who will keep good relations with you, and I will sever the relation with the one who will sever the relations with you.' It said, 'yes, O my Lord.' Allah said, 'Then that is for you'."
More to the point, the Prophet pbuh said, "O people, extend greetings (saying Salam to each other), keep relations with your kin, provide food (to people) and pray at night when people are asleep and you will enter Paradise in peace." In yet another Hadith  narrated on the authority of Abu Ayyub that a man came to the Prophet pbuh and said, "direct me to a deed which draws me near to Paradise and takes me away from the Fire (of Hell). Upon this he (the Prophet) said, "you worship Allah and never associate anything with Him, establish prayer, and pay Zakat, and do good to your kin. When he turned his back, the Messenger of Allah Pbuh remarked, "if he adheres to what he has been ordered to do, he would enter Paradise."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that the reward of you maintaining ties of kinship will be brought immediately to you in your life in this world or later in your next life. This is because it is one of the best acts of obedience  as mentioned by the Prophet pbuh: "no obedience to God fruits in quicker reward than observing bonds of kinship." It is also a cause, by Allah's grace, for increasing one's lifespan, happiness and wealth. The Prophet pbuh said, "whoever would like to make his life longer, expand his wealth and avoid death in detestable manner must obey Allah and observe bonds of kinship."
Furthermore, because maintaining these relations nurtures love, they also help strengthening the unity and cohesion amongst family members. The Prophet pbuh said, "learn enough about your lineage to facilitate keeping your ties of kinship. For indeed keeping the ties of kinship encourages affection among the relatives, increases the wealth, and increases the lifespan." This Hadith urges us to know the names of parents and grandparents, uncles and other ties of blood with the goal of staying connected with them and being kind to them.
Dear Muslims,
Please know also that you can honour bonds of kinship by actively engaging in such acts of obedience as visiting relatives, accepting their invitations, spending generously, helping them when they are in distress, visiting them when they are sick, celebrating their joys, comforting them in their sorrows, attending to their needs, respecting the elderly amongst them, being compassionate to the young ones, overlooking their flaws and mistakes, fulfilling their rights and giving money to the poor amongst them. Allah says, "and give the relative his right, and [also] the poor and the traveller." (Al Israa: 26).
In the same regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "giving charity to a poor person is charity, and (giving) to a relative is two things, charity and upholding the ties of kinship."  
As soon as the verse: "never will you attain the good [reward] until you spend [in the way of Allah ] from that which you love." (Al Imran: 92) was revealed, Abu Talha al Ansari went to the Messenger of Allah pbuh and said, "O Messenger of Allah! The property which I love the best is Bayruha is Sadaqa for Allah. I hope for its good and for it to be stored up with Allah. Place it wherever you wish, Messenger of Allah.
"The Prophet pbuh said, "Well done! That is property which profits! That is property which profits. I have heard what you have said about it and I think that you should give it to your relatives." Abu Talha said, "I will do it, Messenger of Allah!' Abu Talha therefore divided it among his relatives and the children of his paternal uncle."
Scholars generally classified this Hadith under sections of the merits of spending on relatives. Imam Al Shaabi said, "no relative of mine died indebted that I had not paid his or her debt."
Knowing that, Dear Muslims, please honour bonds of your kinship even if your relatives severe them in order to increase your rewards, purify your soul and raise your status. Abu Dhar al Ghifari said that the Prophet pbuh advised him to observe many good acts, including to love the poor, be closer to them and maintain ties of kith and kin even if the latter disrespect them.
Allah-Exalted is He- has warned us from breaking these bonds and for his part our Prophet pbuh considered it a sinful act that is punishable in this life and the next. He said, "there is no sin more fitted to have punishment meted out by Allah to its perpetrator in advance in this world along with what He stores up for him in the next world than oppression and severing ties of relationship." He also said, "the tie of kinship is suspended to the Throne and says: He who unites me Allah would unite him and he who severed me Allah would sever him." 
Dear Muslims,
Please observe ties of your kinship as you are ordered by Allah, ask about them, visit them, never forget to greet them in joyful occasions and be generous and kind to them. If you do so, the Lord of earth and heaven, by his favour, may be pleased with you.
With this in mind, my Allah make us amongst those who duly honour bonds of kinship following the Sunna of our Prophet pbuh. May Allah help us always to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).] 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran  and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that prayers are accepted as long as the believer is not impatient, nor does he pray ill for someone. This is evidenced in the following Hadith, "the supplication of the servant is granted in case he does not supplicate for sin or for severing the ties of blood, or he does not become impatient. It was said, "Allah's Messenger, what does: "If he does not grow impatient" imply? He said, "that he should say like this: I supplicated and I supplicated but I did not find it being responded. And then he becomes frustrated and abandons supplication."
He pbuh also said, "the actions of the children of Adam are presented before Allah the Almighty on Thursday evening, the night before Jumuaa (Friday). He does not accept the actions of someone who has severed ties of kinship."
Dear Muslims,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













