addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He sent the holy Quran as a Guidance to people, an Insight to the pious and a reminder for the two worlds to ponder upon its meanings. We adore Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and status. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
 Dear Muslims,
Allah the Almighty sent his Messengers and Prophets to humankind, supported by His Words in the heavenly books. From within them shone lights of guidance benefiting people and most important of all those Books is the holy Quran. Allah says, "and We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], the Book in truth, confirming that which preceded it of the Scripture and as a criterion over it." (Al Maeda: 48). It is the word of Allah revealed to Muhammad pbuh through his angel Jibreel. Its recitation is an act of prayer and its words are a miracle of their own.
Because of its great status and sacredness, Quran has been carved in the Preserved Slate (Allwah al Mahfoudh) as Allah says, "but this is an honoured Quran [Inscribed] in a Preserved Slate." (Al Burooj: 201-22). Then Allah sent the Quran from there to the House of Might (Baytu al Izzah), which is in the heaven of this world. That was in a blessed day of Ramadan: the Night of Decree, as the Almighty says, "indeed, We sent the Quran down during the Night of Decree." (Al Qadr: 1). It was described as a blessed night by Allah: "indeed, We sent it down during a blessed night. Indeed, We were to warn [mankind]." (Addukhan: 3).
Then it came down in parts to the Messenger of Allah Muhammad pbuh. Allah says, "and indeed, the Quran is the revelation of the Lord of the worlds. The Trustworthy Spirit has brought it down upon your heart, [O Muhammad] - that you may be of the warners -In a clear Arabic language." Ashuaraa: 192-195).
It was named Al Qura'n in Arabic (Quran) because in it Suras have been put together as mentioned in the following verses: "move not your tongue with it, [O Muhammad], to hasten with recitation of the Quran. Indeed, upon Us is its collection [in your heart] and [to make possible] its recitation. So when We have recited it [through Jibreel], then follow its recitation. Then upon Us is its clarification [to you]." (Al Qiyamah: 16-19). That is, to memorise it and read it out to people without forgetting any part of it.
Quran came in many names as a token of honour to it, including, but are not limited to, Al Furqan (the Criterion), Annur al Mubin (a Clear Light), Al Sirat Al Mustaqim (the Straight Path), Ahsan Al Hadith (the Best Satement), Al Fasl (Decisive Statement), and Al Qayem (the Straight).
Taking twenty three years to complete, it was sent in parts and not at one instance. This leads us to wonder if there was any reason behind this. And yes there is: to strengthen the Prophet's will firmly and assure him that the revelation was yet to continue. The Almighty says, "and those who disbelieve say, "Why was the Quran not revealed to him all at once?" Thus [it is] that We may strengthen thereby your heart. And We have spaced it distinctly." (Al Furqan: 32).
Another reason was to consider facts and events as they unfold. Thus verses were gradually revealed to address different situations and direct people to whatever Allah wills.
Scholars distinguished between Meccan and Medinan verses. Under the first group lie those which were revealed in Mecca or addressed to its people. This category is characterised by its theme centred on matters related to faith in Allah and His existence, signs, might and belief in the Last Day. The latter is more concerned with rules and regulations, duties and rights and they came after faith was well established in people's heart. In total there are one hundred and fourteen Suras.
There are also the abrogating and abrogated verses. The act of abrogation means removing a previous duty or rule and replacing it with a new one for the sake of leniency. Allah says, "We do not abrogate a verse or cause it to be forgotten except that We bring forth [one] better than it or similar to it. Do you not know that Allah is over all things competent?" (Al Baqara: 106).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that the holy Quran is an eternal book, which is described by Allah as, "falsehood cannot approach it from before it or from behind it; [it is] a revelation from a [Lord who is] Wise and Praiseworthy." (Fussilat: 42). It was also set to be preserved by Allah and as such it is a miracle that never dies; a book that can neither be added to, nor decreased, distorted or misinterpreted. In this regard, Allah says, "indeed, it is We who sent down the Quran and indeed, We will be its guardian." (Al Hijr: 9). 
By His grace and pledge to preserve the holy Quran, Allah-Exalted is He- guided the Companions to collect its verses and Suras and recorded them physically. This took place during the time of Calif Abu Bakr Al Siddiq. The initiative came out of fear of losing it, because its content was then scattered, written here and there on patches of skin, palm fronds and else. Such effort was taken even further during Calif Utman when some of the Companions advised him to write the Quran in one book.
Muslim scholars' contributions to the holy Quran have rolled out ever since, competing with each whether in learning or teaching it, interpreting its meanings or memorising it, printing or publishing it. This way, it has received great attention throughout history to become the essence of our lives and the wellspring from which we get provisions and strength, invaluable teachings and lessons, as well. Furthermore, It is a guide to what Allah has forbidden and permitted.
A comprehensive book as it is, both parents and children would delve into it to know their obligations. From its teachings, we come to know how to deal best with others, and from its guidance guardians are shown how to be lenient towards their subjects. And in compliance to its orders, subjects seek to obey their rulers.
Dear Servants of Allah,
By His favour, the holy Quran was made easy and accessible for people as He the Almighty says, "and We have certainly made the Quran easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?" (Al Qamar: 17). Today it is available in print- in many sizes- as well as on portable electronic devices. So every Muslim has to read it and memorise it. And anyone who does so has to reflect upon its verses as Allah says, "[this is] a blessed Book which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that they might reflect upon its verses and that those of understanding would be reminded." (Sad: 29).
Similarly, whoever has memorised a part of it must keep on reciting it over and again because Quran is liable to be forgotten. Our Prophet pbuh said, "keep refreshing your knowledge of the Quran, for I swear by Him in Whose Hand is the life of Muhammad that it is more liable to escape than camels that are released from their tying ropes."
From this perspective, our wise leadership has provided all means necessary to serve the holy Quran. Since Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who launched the Sheikh Zayed project for memorising the holy Quran, efforts to print and publish Quran have never ceased. Other efforts include establishing and maintaining Quranic memorisation centres across UAE. These institutions, which attract many people, young and old, male and female, have graduated generations of memorisers.
Keeping this in mind we seek Allah's favour to grant us the blessings of understanding Quran and looking into its meanings days and nights. May Allah help us also to obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that former generations of Muslims were to praise for their great work in serving the holy Quran. To follow in their footsteps, we must engage in learning the Quran, memorise it, recite it, reflect upon its meanings and act according to its teachings and principles.
Moreover, we have to teach it to our children by helping them memorise it and understand it correctly so they can follow its orders and guidance. Last but not least, we need to do our best to publish it and further promote it. Indeed whoever calls for it he is guided to the straight path. Our Prophet pbuh said, "the best of you is he who learns the Quran and teaches it."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













