addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, Exalted is He. He commends His servants, who volunteer, saying, "and whoever volunteers good - then indeed, Allah is appreciative and Knowing." (Al Baqara: 158). We also thank Him for all the bountiful blessings-visible or invisible- He has granted us with. And whatever you spend Allah shall recompense you for. Indeed He is the Best of Providers.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates, and to Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. He is full of bounty to the worlds.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, who promised the generous great rewards from their Lord. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and cooperate in righteousness and piety, but do not cooperate in sin and aggression. And fear Allah ; indeed, Allah is severe in penalty." (Al Maeda: 2).
Dear Muslims,
By His grace Allah has placed in some of His servants' hands keys to good. He bestows upon them abundant bounties, which they seize to engage in acts of obedience and kindness. They are also gifted with good health, which they use in beneficial work, not to mention to pray to Allah and compete with each other in doing charity. The Almighty says, "it is those who hasten to good deeds, and they outstrip [others] therein." (Al Muaminun: 61).
Allah the Almighy has created Man, granted him succession upon the earth and ordered him to be kind to each other. Adhering to this principle is considered as the best thing one can do in order to come closer to his Creator and succeed in this life and the next. On this matter Allah says, "O you who have believed, bow and prostrate and worship your Lord and do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj: 77).  Scholars said that this verse refers to acts of good like comforting and sympathising with the poor, spending, speaking goodly words, only to mention a few.
Voluntary work may involve any actions aiming at helping people meeting their needs or relieving their distress, whether this is physical or moral. The Almighty says, "We feed you only for the countenance of Allah . We wish not from you reward or gratitude." (Annas: 9).
This verse told the story of a group of generous people who gave food and offered help to others out of a desire to please Allah alone. So the Almighty knew of their intention and praised them accordingly.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Voluntary work is in essence a humanitarian action destined to all. For this reason the best people are those who are beneficial to each other. It is no wonder then that it is part and parcel of the Prophets' and the pious' characteristics. In this regard, let us consider our Guide Muhammad pbuh as an example, who once returned to his wife Saiyda Khadija after he had received revelation in Hira cave and said, "I fear that something may happen to me." Khadija replied, "Never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones."
The Hadith shows to what extent our Prophet pbuh was generous and supportive to the needy.
The Prophet Musa pbuh volunteered to water the flock of the Prophet Shuaib pbuh's daughters when he noticed they were not able to do so. This incident was narrated in the following verses: "and when he came to the well of Madyan, he found there a crowd of people watering [their flocks], and he found aside from them two women driving back [their flocks]. He said, "What is your circumstance?" They said, "We do not water until the shepherds dispatch [their flocks]; and our father is an old man. So he watered [their flocks] for them." (Al Qasas: 23-24).
Another example was of Dhul-Qarnayn who offered to set up a dam between two mountains for the sake of people who sought his assistance. Allah says, "they said, "O Dhul-Qarnayn, indeed Gog and Magog are [great] corrupters in the land. So may we assign for you an expenditure that you might make between us and them a barrier?" (Al Kahf: 94).
He turned down their proposal and built the structure voluntarily instead, saying, "that in which my Lord has established me is better [than what you offer], but assist me with strength; I will make between you and them a dam." (Al Kahf: 95). He only asked them to offer some labour and materials.
For their part, the Prophet pbuh's Companions realised the merits of voluntary work and were engaged actively in every related act. For their sincere work, they were amply rewarded. Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him, used to give some of his dear time to help others.
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "who amongst you is fasting today? Abu Bakr said, "I am." He (again) said, "who amongst you followed a funeral procession today? Abu Bakr said, "I did." He (the Prophet) again said, "who amongst you served food to the needy?" Abu Bakr said "I did." He (again) said, "who amongst you has today visited the sick?" Abu Bakr said, "I did." thereupon Allah's Messenger  said, "anyone in whom (these good deeds) are combined will certainly enter paradise."
 Dear Muslims,
Islam has taught us that there are many avenues for voluntary work, as our Prophet pbuh said, "every Muslim has to give in charity."  The people asked, "O Allah's Prophet! If someone has nothing to give, what will he do?" He said, "he should work with his hands and benefit himself and also give in charity (from what he earns).
" The people further asked, "if he cannot find even that?" He replied, "he should help the needy who appeal for help." Then the people asked, "if he cannot do that?" He replied, "then he should perform good deeds and keep away from evil deeds and this will be regarded as charitable deeds."
Indeed, anyone who undertakes good actions Allah will reward him accordingly and raise his status. The Almighty says, "and it is not your wealth or your children that bring you nearer to Us in position, but it is [by being] one who has believed and done righteousness. For them there will be the double reward for what they did, and they will be in the upper chambers [of Paradise], safe [and secure]." (Sabaa: 37).
Dear Muslims,
Please be aware that voluntary work strengthens the cement of the community and brings its members together to live in even further harmony. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "the similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever."
And the more such people, like the poor, the orphans and the widows, feel they are living in a cohesive society where volunteering and solidarity are valued the more they admire their fellow members of community. Abu Dharr, may Allah be pleased with him, said, the Messenger of Allah pbuh was asked: "tell us about a person who does some good deed and people praise him, will this be considered as showing off?" He replied, "this is the glad tidings which a believer receives (in this life)."
Please also know that voluntary work is further confirmed in cases of emergency and sudden calamities. At such critical times, this aspect of good deeds is highly valuable as it brings hope, mercy and relief to those who are in distress. Likewise, those who offer to help will feel happy and proud.
In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "if anyone relieves a Muslim believer from one of the hardships of this worldly life, Allah will relieve him of one of the hardships of the Day of Resurrection. If anyone makes it easy for the one who is indebted to him (while finding it difficult to repay), Allah will make it easy for him in this worldly life and in the Hereafter, and if anyone conceals the faults of a Muslim, Allah will conceal his faults in this world and in the Hereafter. Allah helps His slave as long as he helps his brother."
With this in mind, may Allah help us to do good and make it easy for us. May Allah bestow upon us further favours for You are the most Generous and help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that volunteering is a main foundation for building societies. It is, therefore, a means to measure to what extent individuals are involved in solidarity efforts amongst their community.
From this perspective, the UAE has spared no efforts to translate these noble values in real terms by helping victims of disasters. Thus our country-leadership and people- has become a symbol of goodness, whose impact is seen far and wide around the world, making it an incontestable leader in humanitarian relief work.
Knowing that, you are concerned and invited to support humanitarian work through official institutions and government authorities such as the Red Crescent Authority and others. By spending some of your spare time in volunteering you will receive people's admiration and respect and you contribute to their cohesion.  Ultimately, you are helping people to continue giving in full loyalty to Allah and to their country. The Almighty says, "so for this let the competitors compete." (Al Mutaffifin: 26).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













