addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Within the framework of Mafhas Al Qatah programme, Awqaf has inaugurated the Late Hammouda bin Ali Mosque in Bani Yas East, Abu Dhabi. The  ceremony was attended by Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Mr Mohammed bin Hammouda, Mr Khaled Mohammed al Neyadi, Waqf's executive director and Mr Rashid Ali al Mazrouei, director of Awqaf's branch in Abu Dhabi as well as a host of Awqaf's heads of  departments and people from the local community.  
Addressing the audience, Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei prayed to Allah to grant HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, with abundant health, and praised his efforts in providing decent livelihood and well-being to the people of UAE. His keen interest in their welfare, he said, has made them amongst the happiest people in the world.
Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei also lauded the continuous support of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates and Members of the Supreme Council and HH the General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. He particularly highlighted their kind interest and generosity in maintaining houses of Allah and attending to the initiatives by Awqaf.
Dr Hamdan al Mazrouei said that the new mosque had been named after the Late Hammouda bin Ali following the Islamic Affairs's board of directors' recent decision to give the new mosques names of people who contributed greatly to the nation. He added that the Late Hammouda bin Ali was chosen thanks to his role in serving his country in many ministerial committees as well as in representing the UAE in regional, Arab and international venues.
Bin Hammouda was appointed by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, as his personal advisor and was also  honoured the loyal service medal in recognition to his services to the country as a minister of state in interior affairs in the federal government and a minister of interior. During his tenure in various positions, he gave in his academic knowledge and practical experience to translate the state vision in all fields of government. 
In a statement, Mr Mohammed bin Hammouda commended the fruitful role Awqaf is playing in building and maintaining mosques in line with the directives of the UAE wise leaders, who are keenly interested in catering for the needs of houses of Allah. He also praised the great development in mosques in terms of construction and their mission in the community, stressing the beneficial follow-up of Awqaf and its continuous efforts in equipping mosques and making them a serene environment conducive to worshipping.  
For his part, Mr al Neyadi commended the overwhelming response by donors, Emiratis and residents, to the Mafhas al Qatah programme, which is a continuing Waqf initiative by Islamic Affairs to raise funds for building new mosques across the country. As part of the project, three mosques have been opened in Ajman, Bani Yas and Al Wathba, nine mosques are under construction and another four are planned. Currently, there are 11 mosques that are either under construction or maintenance all over the UAE.  The Late Hammouda bin Ali Mosque consists of a main hall with a capacity of 700 worshippers and a women's prayer room accommodating up to 100 worshippers. It is fitted with all of the necessary facilities, including accommodations for Imam and Muezzin. The AED 5,200,000  mosque features an architectural design that combines authentic Islamic heritage and UAE local architecture characteristics. It was painted with colours that inspire tranquillity, which add to its serene atmosphere and keep its design as simple as possible. Floral motifs are chosen for ornaments.  Stringent construction standards were implemented in accordance to specifications of Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council. For example, it is equipped with a cooling system that save energy and an irrigation system that uses water efficiently. A parking lot is also available.  
 













