addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In the presence of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Forces, and Prime Minister of Malaysia, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (Awqaf) and the Malaysia Development Fund (MBD) agreed on building a mosque complex in Bandar Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur. The intended project came to acknowledge the outstanding relations between the two countries.
As per the agreement, MDF, in its capacity as the master developer of Bandar Malaysia, will provide a dedicated site for the project while Awqaf will fund the development of its design and construction. Awqaf Chairman, HE Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, and Mohammed Hazem Abd Rahman, Chief Executive Officer of MBD, signed the agreement.
The ceremony was also attended by the MBD's Chairman, Tan Sri Dato 'Seri Luden Wok Kamaruddin, and member of the board, Datuk Ismee Ismail.  
Following the signing of the agreement, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed and the Malaysian Prime Minister, HE Mohammad Najib Abdul Razak, reviewed the mosque maquette, which is inspired by the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi. The maquette also features the strategic site of Bandar Malaysia on which the new mosque complex will be built. The latter will include an Islamic learning centre equipped with the state-of-the-art tools and another centre for gifted children.
In a statement, HE Najib Abdul Razak said, "the grant to build this mosque modeled on the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque is a great example of tolerance, respect and mutual understanding. It comes to contribute to such a positive interaction that marks the strong relations between Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates. It willl also strengthen the relations between the two peoples."
For his part, HE Dr al Mazrouei said, "this partnership shows the extent of our commitment about the promotion of values of tolerance and religious awareness as well as moderate Islamic principles. We do this through establishment of mosques and learning centres. In this context, we will cooperate with the Malaysia Development Fund to builld a [special] centre that meets the needs of the community."
The Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque represents the cultural and national values that were laid down by the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
HE Najib Abdul Razak in his capacity as former chairman of the board of MBD had previously launched many projects in the framework of corporate social accountability. Those programmes involved merit scholarships valuing MYR 10 million (1 MYR equals AED 1.14) to support qualified students from religious schools and help them join specialised academic studies like medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, among others, at formal universities. Other grants totalling MYR 20 million went to finance the revamp of the Kampung Baru Mosque area, Kuala Lumpur, with the goal of making it a development hub in the region, in addition to other intiatives aiming at helpinig local community leaders, such as Imams and village chiefs, to perform Hajj.
 













