addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Thirty mosques will be rebuilt in Al Ain modeled on Al Hosn Palace in Abu Dhabi as part of an initiative by HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Funded by His Highness Court, the projects will be overseen by Their Highness Sheikh Tahnoon bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, the Representative of the Ruler in the Eastern Region, and Sheikh Hazza bin Tahnoon, Undersecretary of Dewan of Ruler's Representative in the Eastern Region.
The announcement was made by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's Chairman, who said the move would contribute to the revival of national heritage and consolidate the modernity trend of UAE.
Four mosques in the areas of Shiab Al Ashkhar, Al Jimi, Al Qattara and Al Jahili are due to be completed before Ramadan, while the remaining projects will be finalised between 2015 and 2016, he said.  Dr al Mazroeui explained that every mosque would have a capacity of between 500 to 1200 worshippers, whereas the renovated ones would accommodate between 300 to 2000 worshippers. Annur mosque in Shiab Al Ashkhar will have the capacity of 3000 worshippers while Abu Ayub Al Ansari in Al Qattara 2100 worshippers.  There are also many mosques listed as national heritage in Al Ain which have received great interest from the UAE wise leadership, including The Sultan Al Khmisani in al Qattara, The Shabib Al Dhaheri in Al Jimi and The Ali Hamad Al Mutawa in Annakheel area in the city centre.
Awqaf's Chairman added that: "as our wise leadership has always been keen to launch beneficial intiatives and support religious, civilisational and national projects, the Islamic Affairs would like to present its sincere appreciation and gratitude to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed for his continuous interest in maintaining mosques. On this occasion, people in Al Ain have warmly welcomed the thirty mosques funded by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed's Court."
He further explained that the new projects would bring the number of mosques in Al Ain and its suburbs up to 1276 by the end of the year. Currently there are 134 mosques under construction.
Dr al Mazrouei emphasised that urban expansion taking place in Abu Dhabi is in full swing and there is close coordination with the Urban Council in the Emirate to meet the rising need of population in terms of mosques. This is done by creating summary metrics which define the population density in each region, he said.
 













