addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah, Exalted is He. He has made Paradise the abode and the ultimate reward for the pious and attainers. I bear witness there is no deity except Allah, with no partners. He is the Ally of the righteous for whom He prepared Gardens of Pleasure.
I also testify that Muhammad-the trusthworthy- is His Servant and His Apostle. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his Family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, if you fear Allah , He will grant you a criterion and will remove from you your misdeeds and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty." (Al Anfal: 29).
Dear Muslims,
The Almighty Allah has created mankind and Jinn to worship Him. He has orderd them to obey and whoever does will receive His satisfaction and grant him a garden as wide as the heavens and earth. Its bliss is everlasting and goodness is like no other. Allah says, "and hasten to forgiveness from your Lord and a garden as wide as the heavens and earth, prepared for the righteous." (Al Imaran: 133).
Those are the winners who will be given to drink [pure] wine [which was] sealed. Therein they abode in serenity, enjoying every bit of bliss. They have whatever they wish, blessed with the ever favour of seeing their Lord, and are, not in the least, afraid of the demise of His blessings on them. There will circulate amongst them [servant] boys [especially] for them, as if they were pearls well-protected in return for their good deeds.
Please know that people of Paradise will enter as groups surrounded by an aura of light as they were described by Allah's Messenger pbuh: "the first batch (of people) who will enter Paradise will be (glittering) like the full moon, and the batch next to them will be (glittering) like the most brilliant star in the sky. Their hearts will be as if the heart of a single man, for they will have neither enmity nor jealousy amongst themselves." And as they enter, they will be welcomed by angels and be given the glad tidings of eternal living they will enjoy in Paradise.
The Almighty says, "but those who feared their Lord will be driven to Paradise in groups until, when they reach it while its gates have been opened and its keepers say, "Peace be upon you; you have become pure; so enter it to abide eternally therein," [they will enter]." (Azzumar: 73). Then a caller will summon them and  reassure them with a  solemn and beautiful voice that  there is no death, pain, or fear.
In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "there would be an announcer (in Paradise) who would make this announcement (the meaning of which is): 'verily there is in store for you (everlasting) health and that you should never fall ill and that you live (forever) and do not die at all. And that you would remain young and never grow old. And that you would always live in affluent circumstances and never become destitute'." He pbuh added that it would be announced to them: "this is the Paradise, which you have been made to inherit it for what you used to do." (Al Araf: 43). 
When they look ahead and around in Heaven, they would marvel such a splendid Creation of Allah whose structures are of gold and silver briks, its earth of safron, its peebles of pearls and rubies, and its buildings are made of chambers over chambers, as mentioned in this verse: "but those who have feared their Lord - for them are chambers, above them chambers built high, beneath which rivers flow. [This is] the promise of Allah. Allah does not fail in [His] promise." (Azzumar: 20).
Therein the righteous  belivers will have tents reserved specially for them as the Prophet pbuh said, "verily in Paradise, the believer will have a tent made of a hollow pearl the length thereof being sixty miles. In it, the believer will have wives who do not see each other, and the believer will visit them all."
Surely, believers will be in bliss when they enter Paradise as shown in this verse: "[you] who believed in Our verses and were Muslims. Enter Paradise, you and your kinds, delighted." (Azzukhruf: 69-70). This means Paradise dwellers will eternally  be living in utmost happiness.
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Paradise is also described as having rivers. The Almighty says, "is the description of Paradise, which the righteous are promised, wherein are rivers of water unaltered, rivers of milk the taste of which never changes, rivers of wine delicious to those who drink, and rivers of purified honey, in which they will have from all [kinds of] fruits and forgiveness from their Lord." (Muhammad: 15).
So whoever dedicate themselves to fasting and staying up late praying, by grace of Allah, will peacefully enter Paradise where they will drink from its rivers, and enjoy its limitless provisions and  goodness.
Their food is described in the following verses as "fruit of what they select and the meat of fowl, from whatever they desire." (Al Waqia: 20-21); "and fruit, abundant [and varied], neither limited [to season] nor forbidden." (Al Waqia: 32-33). This points to the fact that Paradise blessings are never to end and are always there to stay.
As for their drink, Allah says, "indeed, the righteous will drink from a cup [of wine] whose mixture is of Kafur." (Al Insan: 5). He the Almighty also says, "and they will be given to drink a cup [of wine] whose mixture is of ginger." (Al Insan: 17). He further says, "and their Lord will give them a purifying drink." (Al Insan: 21).
Besides, they will cherish the finest dress and jewllery as Allah says, "they will be adorned therein with bracelets of gold and pearl, and their garments therein will be silk." (al Haj: 23).  On the same He says, "they will be adorned therein with bracelets of gold and will wear green garments of fine silk and brocade, reclining therein on adorned couches. Excellent is the reward, and good is the resting place." (Al Kahf: 31).
O servants of Allah,
If you are granted Paradise, you will be amongst those who have won the greatest honour of seeing their Lord. Thus, when people enter Paradise they would hear  a solemn and dignified voice and they would turn to it. Then Allah the Almighty would address them asking: "do you wish Me to give you anything more?
"They would say: Have You not brightened our faces? Have You not made us enter Paradise and saved us from Fire? He (the narrator) said: He the most Exalted would lift the veil, and of things given to them nothing would he dearer to them than the sight of their Lord, the Mighty and the Glorious."  
The Prophet pbuh then recited the verse: "those who do good will have the best reward and even more"  (Yunus: 26).
Having this in mind, we implore Allah to grant us Paradise and bestow upon us the greatest delight  of gazing upon His Face and the joy of meeting Him. May Allah  make us amongst those who do good and win the reward of inheriting Paradise. May Allah  also forgive us and help us also to obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please obey Allah-the most Exalted is He- and know that He has prepared for His pious worshippers such things as no eye has ever seen, no ear has ever heard of, and nobody has ever thought of. Please also be aware that people deserving Paradise should be characterised by piety and good manners, and keep themselves away from sins. Those who did would be truly blessed.
Part of good morality is also to show mercy upon both humans and animals. In this regard, Abu Huraira  narrated that Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "while a man was walking he felt thirsty and went down a well and drank water from it. On coming out of it, he saw a dog panting and eating mud because of excessive thirst.
"The man said, 'this (dog) is suffering from the same problem as that of mine.' So he (went down the well), filled his shoe with water, caught hold of it with his teeth and climbed up and watered the dog. Allah thanked him for his (good) deed and forgave him." The people asked, "O Messenger of Allah, is there a reward for us in serving (the) animals?" He replied, "yes, there is a reward for serving any animate." 
Knowing that please seek to accomplish good work in order to obtain reward from the Lord of the heavens and the earth. For that you have the month of Shaaban, which is an opportunity to engage in acts of worship and other good deeds that draw you closer to Allah.
About it, the Prophet pbuh said, "that is a month to which people do not pay much attention, between Rajab and Ramadan. It is a month in which the deeds are taken up to the Lord of the worlds, and I like that my deeds be taken up when I am fasting."
Yet it is affirmed by scholars that it is undesirable to fast during the last half of Shaaban except if fasting is a habit of the person.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah bless us in this month of Shaaban and make us to be among those who will witness the coming Ramadan.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi 
 
 













