addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah, The Provider. Neither does he benefit from those who obey Him, nor can he be bothered by those who deny Him. Indeed Allah is free of need and Praiseworthy.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associate. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the Seal of Prophets and the Leader (Imam) of the Messengers. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al Baqara: 281).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the Almighty has bestown upon us His blessings and generosity by guiding us to Islam. As such, He would forgive those who did wrong should they repent. Because He created them, His knowledge extends over all His Servants and knows their weaknesses. So if it happened they sinned and turned to Him in repentance, He-the Exalted - would offer to cover up their faults and pardon them. He says, "say, "O My servants who have transgressed against themselves [by sinning], do not despair of the mercy of Allah.Indeed, Allah forgives all sins. Indeed, it is He who is the Forgiving, the Merciful." (Azzumar: 53).
If you regret sincerly your misdeeds and seek your Lord's forgiveness, He the Almighty will, by his grace, accept your repentance and forgive your wrongdoings. He says, "and it is He who accepts repentance from his servants and pardons misdeeds, and He knows what you do." (Ashura: 25).
Please know that Allah the most Exalted has made for His servants special days when their sins can be further removed and taught them supplications and worships to engage in in order to receive pardon. Among the revered acts for people seeking to conceal their defects and have their sins forgiven is preserving Salat. Allah says in this regard, "and establish prayer at the two ends of the day and at the approach of the night. Indeed, good deeds do away with misdeeds. That is a reminder for those who remember." (Hud: 114).
Through prayers, the Muslim can wipe off sins as mentioned in this Hadith: "do you think that is there was a river by the door of any one of you, and he bathed in it five times each day, would there be any trace of dirt left on him?" They said: "no trace of dirt would be left on him." He said: "that is the likeness of the five daily prayers. By means of them Allah erases sins." 
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Anyone standing to perform Salat and does good work to overcome his wrongdoings, the Almighty Allah has promised to erase his sins. This is evidenced in the following verse: "O you who have believed, bow and prostrate and worship your Lord and do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj: 77). The same is reflected in this Hadith: "fear Allah wherever you are, do good deeds after doing bad ones, the former will wipe out the latter, and behave decently towards people."
So when you hear the call, stand up and go forward to the house of Allah.  For anyone who goes to the mosque and remember his Lord humbly, asking His forgiveness, He will answer his plea. On this matter our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever says, when he hears the Muezzin: Ashhadu an la ilaha illallah wahdahu la sharika lahu wa anna Muhammadan abduhu wa Rasuluhu, raditu Billahi Rabban, wa bil-Islami dinan wa bi Muhammadin Rasula (I bear witness that there is none worthy of worship except Allah alone, with no partner or associate, and that Muhammad is the His servant and Messenger; I am content with Allah as my Lord, Islam as my religion and Muhammad as my Messenger),' his sins will be forgiven."
Please also be aware that as long as you are in the mosque sanctuary, praying and remembering your Lord and perform your Salat regularly there, you are indeed following ways of mercy and forgiveness. Allah's Messenger said, "shall I tell you that for which Allah will wipe out your sins, and raise your ranks?" They said, "of course Allah's Messenger!" He said: "performing Wudu well in difficulty, and taking many steps to the Masajid, and waiting for Salat after Salat, That is the Ribat."
And whoever lines up for prayer behind the Imam, or care always not to outpace him in his Sujud  (prostration) or Ruku (bowing), or if his (the worshipper) declaration of affirmation (Amin) coincides with that of the angels in heavens he will, by Allah's favour, be granted forgiveness. In this regard, our guide Muhammad pbuh said, "when one of you says 'Amin' and the angels in the sky say 'Amin' so that one coincides with the other, his previous wrong actions will be forgiven."
When the prayer is over, the worshipper remains in the realm of forgiveness as mentioned by the Prophet pbuh: "if anyone extols Allah after every prayer thirty-three times, and praises Allah thirty-three times, and declares His Greatness thirty-three times, ninety-nine times in all, and says to complete a hundred, 'there is no deity but Allah, having no partner with Him, to Him belongs sovereignty and to Him is praise due, and He is Potent over everything.' His sins will be forgiven even If these are as abundant as the foam of the sea." 
Moreover, anyone who increases Dhikr (Allah's remembrance), Allah will increase for him His mercy and pardon. The Prophet pbuh said, "he who  says, 'glory be to Allah and with His praise,' (Subhana Allah wa bi-hamdihi) one hundred times in a day will have his wrong actions taken away from him, even if they are as abundant as the foam on the sea."  
Dear Muslims,
Please remember that Allah-Exalted is He- has brought Creation into existence to confer on them mercy and not to subdue them to torture. Allah says, "what would Allah do with your punishment if you are grateful and believe? And ever is Allah Appreciative and Knowing." (Annisaa: 147).That is, [people] do good deeds and have faith in Allah and His Messenger, a scholar explained.  
Similarly, if a person engages in good actions and repents, Allah will forgive him. And whoever acknowledges his defects and faults and stands up purifed from his sins to pray will see himself honoured and pardoned by his Lord. On this matter, our Prophet pbuh said, "he who performed ablution well, his sins would come out from his body, even coming out from under his nails." The same is highlighted in another Hadith: "when a servant (of Allah) commits a sin, and he performs ablution well, and then stands and prays two rakaahs, and seeks pardon from Allah, Allah pardons him."
Knowing that, we are in blesssed days and nights of Shaaban and drawing nearer to Ramadan, a month of charity. So let us do good so may Allah bestow His blessings upon us. Let us supplicate to Him and seek His pardon so may He erase our misdeeds. As we approach Ramadan let us also prepare for it by fasting, increasing prayer, having faith in Allah and being grateful to Him. Those, who excel in worshipping Allah, will receive His pardon.
Allah's Messenger says, "whoever fasted the month of Ramadan out of sincere Faith (i.e. belief) and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his past sins will be forgiven." Lets us also focus on increasing our prayers day and night and avoid being distracted. Our Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "whoever prays during the night in Ramadan out of sincere faith and seeking its reward from Allah, will have all of his previous sins forgiven."
With this in mind, we humbly seek Your  mercy to accept our repentance and let us be amongst those who ask  for Your forgiveness. May Allah  also help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." Annisaa: 59).
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no partner. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Him as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that an aspect of solidarity between members of the community is donating blood. It benefits both the healthy and the patient. Among its benefits are energising the  body and improving the blood circulation for the donor. But most importantly, it is a lifeline for the sick and the severly injured.
If someone donates blood and helps save a  life, he will be rewarded like if he saves all mankind. Allah says, "and whoever saves one - it is as if he had saved mankind entirely." (Al Maida: 32). We are therefore socially accountable towards society to donate blood  and help saving lives.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













