addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has won the Pan-Arab Excellence Awards Academy (PAWA) Gold Shield and Certificate for technical innovation in the category of government authorities and official entities' websites for 2014. The awarding ceremony took place in June 3, 2014 in Dubai and was attended by representatives of ministries and government authorities from many Arab countries as well as a host of professionals.
Ms Mariam Rashid al Braiki, the IT director, received the Gold Shield and Certificate of Excellence for technical innovation on behalf of Awqaf. The prize came to acknowledge the outstanding efforts of Awqaf in developing electronic applications, which serve the organisational mission, vision and goals.
In a statement, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's director general, attributed this success to the continuous support from the UAE wise leadership. This has helped Awqaf to stay up to date with the latest technologies and put them in the service of religious issues and social interaction, he said.
The website attracted more than two million visitors by the end of last year and this number is set to rise during this year due to content update and addition of new services online. One of these services is donation via e-Dirham (second generation).
Dr al Kaabi explained that Friday Khutba posted on the website and Application is popular and is seen in more than 113 countries. Fatwas issued from the UAE Official Fatwa Centre and published on the website also attract increasingly a large number of visitors, he said, adding that the Centre had gained renown locally, regionally and internationally. There are also many other interactive services of interest to the members of the community, whether individuals or institutions.  Dr al Kaabi stressed that the development efforts under way were part of the electronic conversion of Awqaf's services which were in tune with the UAE electronic government strategy and the m-Government initiative.
Awqaf's website scored 97 and 100 per cent in 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively in government entities website quality evaluation overseen by the UAE electronic government. In 2013 it won the Golden Award at the level of UAE in the category of governmental entities and official authorities and in 2012 obtained the Golden and Strategic E-Government Web Awards as well as the Technical Innovation Award at the level of UAE in the same category. The prizes were offered by PAWA.    
 













