addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah. He confers upon us sense of reason and intellect other than all creatures. He makes lawful for us the good things and prohibits for us the evil.  We extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status, and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
We also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. Allah's Messenger said, "if a large amount of anything causes intoxication, a small amount of it is prohibited." May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
Allah-the most Exalted is He- has created humans in the best of form, guided them and given them good living. He also instructed them to do acts of worship in recognition of His blessings. Allah says, "then eat of what Allah has provided for you [which is] lawful and good. And be grateful for the favor of Allah, if it is [indeed] Him that you worship." (Annahl: 114). 
Muslims should therefore strive good in all situations:  in their food, drink, dress and behaviour. Thus was the Prophet pbuh's character about whom Allah says, "[he] makes lawful for them the good things and prohibits for them the evil." (Al Aaraf: 157). Lawful matters are defined by scholars as everything that Allah has permitted which is beneficial and does not contradicts religion. The evil in this context is anything that Allah has prohibited and is seen as harmful to well-being and is breaching faith.
Allah says, "O mankind, eat from whatever is on earth [that is] lawful and good and do not follow the footsteps of Satan. Indeed, he is to you a clear enemy." (Al Baqara: 168). Here Allah commands His servants to benefit from the good bounties of the earth He has offered them,  which are neither harmful to the body, nor to the mind. At the same time He forbids following the steps of Satan.
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Satan is poised to mislead people away from what Allah has permitted and tempt them, for example, to the world of addiction and intoxication. This way they are losing reason, with which Allah has raised their rank over the rest of creatures. So it is no wonder then that Islam has interdicted the consumption of any stimulant that might alter consciousness and feelings.
Umm Salamah narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh forbade every intoxicant and everything which produces lack of vigor.
Indeed, intellect is one of the greatest Divine blessings that sets us apart and helps us build nations and civilisations.
It is a responsibility and honour. Those who have it must act and worship Allah accordingly, and live sensibly. Caliph Umar ibn al Khattab said, "a man's true essence is his mind, his origin should be faith and his moral courage his character." 
Therefore whoever tend to harm their minds and selves by using intoxicants and similar substances,  Allah the Almighty has vowed to punish them that they will drink from the sweat of hell dwellers. Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "verily Allah the Exalted and Majestic, made a covenant to those who drank intoxicants to make their drink Tinat al-Khabal. They said: Allah's Messenger, what is Tinat a]-Khabal? He said: It is the sweat of the denizens of Hell or the discharge of the denizens of Hell."
In fact, anyone who is out of mind lacks wisdom, gets weaker and causes himslef destruction.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that our souls belong to Allah and we cannot dispose of them anyway we wish. We are totally subject to our Lord as He says, "say, "Indeed, my prayer, my rites of sacrifice, my living and my dying are for Allah , Lord of the worlds." (Al Anaam: 162). He strongly cautioned against causing harm on oneself or on others as in this verse: "and do not kill yourselves [or one another]. Indeed, Allah is to you ever Merciful. And whoever does that in aggression and injustice - then We will drive him into a Fire." (Annisaa: 29-30).
That is,  those who are taking on what Allah has forbidden while they know and further continue transgressing His orders, they will be cast into Fire. In the same regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever drinks poison and kills himself with it, he will be carrying his poison in his hand and drinking it in the (Hell) Fire wherein he will abide eternally forever."
Dear Muslims,
Drugs and intoxicants have a further ill-effect. They drain addicts out of their wealth, which Allah has blessed them with. Our guide Muhammad pbuh said, "verily Allah disapproves three things for you: irrelevant talk, wasting of wealth and excessively asking others for something.
They also cause them to neglect the needs of their families and disrupt their cohesion. This is seen as one of the major sins about which our Prophet pbuh said, "it is sufficient sin for a man that he neglects him whom he maintains."
He pbuh also said, "Allah will ask each guardian about those whom He asked him to guard, whether he kept or lost that, that He will ask each man about his family."
Dear Muslims,
Please be aware that everyone should assume his role in protecting the community and limit the spread of such evil. Parents are especially have to be vigilant and guide their sons and daughters to avoid bad company. Friends, as you know, tend to have infleunce on each other. As it is said, a man follows the religion of his friend; so everyone of you is a guardian and responsible for his charges.
Teachers have also a role to play and are required to direct their students and educate them. From their important position, they should highlight these dangers and risks.
Having this in mind, may Allah protect our youth from any harm and bless us in our lives and health as long as we live. May Allah help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with You orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public. As our children are finishing their exams and summer vacation is starting soon, we seek Allah's favour to crown their efforts with success. During the period ahead, we need to guide them and urge them to benefit from their time through activities that develop their scientific and cultural skills. One way to do this is by encouraging them to register with Quran memorising centres or to engage in part-time and reward programmes of recruitment under the framework of Absher Initiative aimed at enhancing the participation of UAE citizens in the labour market.
Because time is money, anyone, who fails to benefit from it, is a loser. This is clearly emphasised in the following Hadith: "there are two blessings which many people lose: (They are) Health and free time for doing good."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "Indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
_______________________
 Announcement 
Awqaf would like to remind members of the public wishing to perform Hajj this year to register with Hajj campaigns to ensure all related procedures are done in time.
For its  part, Abu Dhabi Education Council would like to advise parents to engage their children in various summer activities as part of "Sayfuna Mumayaz" (our special summer). Registration will begin on June 22, 2014.
 
 













