addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah. He has blessed us with seasons in  which the rewards for good deeds are multiplied and attributed  particularly Ramadan with greater virtues and blessings. In it, He the  Almighty has urged us to strive in acts of worship. I bear witness that  there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also testify that  Muhammad is His Messenger, the best of servants who prayed, fasted and  honoured ties of kinship. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon  our master Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will  follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al Baqara: 183).
Dear Believers,
Time goes by so quickly and because days and months are short the holy Quran urges us to recall the days of Allah as He says, "and remind them of the days of Allah. "Indeed in that are signs for everyone patient and grateful." (Ibrahim: 5). The meaning of this Aya is shown in the Hadith by the Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he said, "Days of Allah" means the grace (favours) of Allah."
His blessings upon us are countless: He has conferred upon us Islam,  guided us to faith, bequeated us a land that we are benefitting from its  goodness, blessed us with abundant provision and granted us a just  ruler who cares for us, to name but a few. For all of these and others  we must praise him.
It was reported that when the sacred month of  Ramadan was approaching, our Prophet pbuh would gather his Companions  and remind them of Allah's favours, saying, "there has come to you  Ramadan, a blessed month, which Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, has  enjoined you to fast. In it the gates of heavens are opened and the  gates of Hell are closed, and every devil is chained up. In it Allah has  a night which is better than a thousand months; whoever is deprived of  its goodness is indeed deprived."
Dear Servants  of Allah,
As we are on the treshold of Ramadan, in which Allah grants rewards  as measured by Himself as mentioned by the Prophet pbuh: "every act of  the son of Adam is for him except fasting. It is done for My sake, and I  will give a reward for it." Let us therefore preapre for it with Dhikr  and praising Allah for He sent the Quran in this holy month. The  Glorified and Exalted is He says, "the month of Ramadhan [is that] in  which was revealed the Quran, a guidance for the people and clear  proofs of guidance and criterion." (Al Baqara: 185).
Let us  also increase our prayers and recitation of Quran and ponder its  meanings. The Companions, may Allah pleased with them, used to read  Quran and remember Allah, seeking His rewards and pardon as well as  purity. The Almighty says, "O mankind, there has to come to you  instruction from your Lord and healing for what is in the breasts and  guidance and mercy for the believers." (Yunus: 57).
For Muslims, Quran and fasting Ramadan are path to intercession and  forgiveness. It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah said, "fasting  and Quran will intercede on behalf of the servant, fasting will say, "O  Allah I deprived him from eating and drinking, let me intercede for  him." In addition, The Quran says, "O Allah I deprived him from sleeping  at night let me intercede for him." In the end, they are permitted to  intercede on his behalf."
O Servants of Allah,
Please  seize the opportunity while you are closer to Allah by supplicating to  Him. Indeed prayer is the fruit of worshipping, rather its core and  essence. Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "verily supplication is worship,"  as it is associated with fasting. The Almighty says, "and when My  servants ask you, [O Muhammad], concerning Me - indeed I am near. I  respond to the invocation of the supplicant when he calls upon Me. So  let them respond to Me [by obedience] and believe in Me that they may be  [rightly] guided." (Al  Baqara: 186). So let us supplicate to our  Lord further for ourselves, our families, living and dead, our nations  and anyone who has a right upon us, including our leaders and rulers.
Indeed, glad tidings to those who have their minds guided to Dhikr  and their breasts expanded to glorify their Lord. With this spirit, they  can think, reflect and ask for forgiveness. Our Prophet pbuh said, "a  man does nothing to rescue himself from Allah's punishment better than  remembering Allah." This is a call for us to remember Allah during days  and nights because He the Almighty is pleased with His servants who  remember Him when they eat and drink, or when they make a mistake or  forget. The Prophet pbuh said, "Indeed Allah is pleased with the servant  who, upon eating his food or drinking his drink, he praises Him for  it." So as we remember our Lord, He does and as we praises Him He  increases His blessing upon us.
Dear Muslims,
As Ramadan is starting, it is one of the perfect times to remember Allah and ask for His forgiveness. The Exalted is He says, "and turn to Allah in repentance, all of you, O believers, that you might succeed."  (Annur: 31). The believer needs to benefit from the repentance reward  and so to make up for what he may forget or ignore. Allah's Messenger  pbuh used to supplicate: "O Allah, forgive me my faults, my ignorance,  my immoderation in my concern. And you are better aware (of my affairs)  than myself. O Allah, grant me forgiveness (of the faults which I  committed) seriously or otherwise (and which I committed) inadvertently  and deliberately. All these (failings) are in me. O Allah, grant me  forgiveness from the faults, which I did in haste or deferred, which I  committed in privacy or in public and you are better aware (of them)  than myself. You are the First and the Last and over all things you are  Omnipotent."
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Truly Ramadan is a month of charity, a month of goodness and  forgiveness. So please do good for the sake of Allah by giving Sadaqa  and Zakat to help the needy fulfill their fasting and prayers. Please  pay your Zakat through official entities like Zakat Fund and give your  Sadaqa to UAE accredited charities so that your giving be beneficially  distributed. Another good act during Ramadan is offering Iftar  (breakfast meal) for fasting people. Our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever  provides the food for a fasting person to break his fast with, then for  his is the same reward as his (the fasting person's), without anything  being diminished from the reward of the fasting person."
Furthermore, you are asked to adopt the best of manners in dealing with  people for fasting is a protection from committing sins. Our Prophet  pbuh used to advise people to have a good attitude and be patient. He  pbuh would say, "if one of you is fasting, he should avoid sexual  relation with his wife and quarreling, and if somebody should fight or  quarrel with him, he should say, 'I am fasting'." Knowing this,  we need to show the positive meaning of fasting by treating everyone  well, keeping a smile and accomplishing our tasks and duties perfectly  well. So turn to Allah through acts of worship, pray to him by obedience  and sincerely thank Him.
Indeed, whoever is granted mercy during  the fasting month, is, by Allah's grace, forgiven; whoever is denied its  benefits, is deprived; and whoever fails to avail himself of its  goodness for his after-life, is to blame.
With this in mind,  may  Allah make us to be amongst those who will witness the coming Ramadan,  bless it for us all and accept our fasting. May Allah help us also to  obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us  to obey in compliance with You orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and  the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in  them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness  for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for  forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him,  having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is  His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be  upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those  who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and  in public and be aware that to prepare for the blessed month should be  by devoting ourselves to acts of worship and not by overspending in food  and drinks or stocking piles of  goods without justification. In fact  Islam has taught us to consume wisely and be moderate in all matters of  life. This means we have to content ourselves with acquiring what is  sufficient for our personal and family needs only. In this regard, Allah  says, "and eat and drink, but be not excessive. Indeed, He likes not those who commit excess." (Al Aaraf: 31).
Food is a great bounty that is essential to our survival. Therefore,we  need to respect it and protect it, as well. The Prophet pbuh said, "when  anyone of you drops a mouthful he should pick it up and remove any of  the filth on it, and then eat it, and should not leave it for the Satan,  and should not wipe his hand with towel until he has licked his  fingers, for he does not know in what portion of the food the blessing  lies." This means it is prohibited to throw food as long as it is edible  and any surplus of it should be donated to those in need. Allah's  Messenger said, "he who has surplus of provisions should give them to  him who has no provisions."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear  also in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed,  Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have  believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to  grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet  pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten  blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad  pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the  Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those  who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to  Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit  us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your  Paradise. May Allah bless us in this month of shaaban and make us to be  among those who will witness the coming Ramadan.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a  distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without  relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in  this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good,  and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al  Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and  provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The  Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh  Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead,  and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh  Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O  Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has  done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all  temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE  and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you.  Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you.  Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer  prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is  greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an  interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their  original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













