addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Islamic Affairs is keen to address the radical religious discourse, which is counterproductive to Islam and homelands, said HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, who called also on all to adhere to the spirit of Islam and its moderate principles. Awqaf's Director General has especially highlighted the risks surrounding the transmission of false religious information. For this reason, Awqaf has emphasised the delivery of sound religious information founded on religious evidence with no exaggeration.
This came during the first media briefing this year which was attended by Awqaf officials and departments' directors. In it, Dr al Kaabi mentioned that the radical thoughts had receded in UAE thanks to the authentic Islamic approach adopted by our wise leadership based on values of moderation, tolerance, accepting the other in line with the lofty goals and teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges.
Dr Al Kaabi expected that 215 new mosques would enter into operation by the year's end all over the UAE. On average, Awqaf is planning to build 200 mosques per year, he said, adding that there are now 5036 mosques, each is characterised with a design of its own that reflects the beauty of Islamic architecture and the natural character of various areas across UAE. Many new mosques are also expected to open before this Ramadan.
He affirmed that more than 16,000 lectures on worhips, transactions, Hadith, biographies and interpretations would be delivered in mosques during Ramadan, highlighting on this occasion that registration in Quranic memorisation centres rose to more than 34,000 in 62 centres all over the UAE compared to 20,000 students at the end of 2012.
Dr al Kaabi reviewed preparations to Ramadan, namely the Scholars, Guests of HH the President (35 in total), who will give about 800 lectures of various subjects in mosques, clubs, universities and other institutions. The themes have already been set to reflect the needs of the UAE community and enrich their knowledge in their specific subjects.
Popularity of the UAE Fatwa Centre
On average, Muftis in the Centre receive up to 3000 calls per day. This number rises in Ramadan up to 7000. Dr al Kaabi said that during Ramadan, it would continue serving the public for 12 hours a day during the working days. SMS service via 2535- for Etisalat and Du- will be available on all days of the week, including the weekends.
In the run up to Ramadan, Awqaf organised workshops for all Muftis in contemporary Fatwas within fasting and related issues. Another training relative to new and evolving matters has been organised for female Muftis in order to forge a scope for a unified related Fatwa.   Here follows some highlights of the press conference:
Awqaf assured membres of the public that Imams are ready to undertake their role after sitting for memorisation and recitation tests.
Awqaf completed the second part of mosque lectures, which will be delivered after Salat Al Asr across all UAE mosques. More than 16,000 lectures will be offered, covering themes such as worships, transactions, interpretations, Hadith, Prophetic tradition and biographies. 
Quranic memorisation sessions will continue all over memeorisation centres leading to the major contest on Ramadan, 16. This year it includes prizes of the best smart application in memorising Quran and the best media content for UAE efforts in serving the holy Quran. Both of these are designed for university students. Other prizes will be destined to people with disabilities and correctional and punitive facilities' inmates who demonstrate progress in memorising Quran.
There are about 34,105 students registered in 62 Quranic memorisation centres and 506 mosque's seminars.
Media content
During Ramadan, scholars and preachers from Awqaf as well as Scholars, Guests of HH the President, will deliver media content in various mediums, including radio and TV. Dr al Kaabi stressed that all of these activities respect credibility of source and principles of moderation.
Waqf projects
In the framework of Mafhas al Qatah, which is a continuing endowment intiative by Islamic Affairs to raise funds for building new mosques across the country, about 215 mosques are expected to enter into operation by this year's end across UAE. On average Awqaf is planninig to build 200 mosques annually. To ensure their maintenance care in a sustainable manner, it has launched 45 endowment projects costing more than AED 700 mn.
Hajj and Umrah
Dr al Kaabi mentioned that the Islamic Affairs was coordinating with the concerned entities in Saudi Arabia and international Hajj delegations, and was keen in particular on the health guidelines. In this regard, Awqaf announced through media that pilgrims must comply with health requirements and precautions issued from the Saudi ministry of health. The said ministry had earlier asked pilgrims to bring evidence of meningitis and polio vaccines taken at least ten days and six weeks before arrival, respectively.
For their safety, the ministry instructions also recommended for those with some chronic conditions, pregnant women and children to postepone Haj and Umrah this year. It is worthwhile mentioning that Awqaf does not prevent anyone wishing to go for Haj even if he or she is old, sick or a pregnant woman. This year's quota for UAE stood at 4982 pilgrims.
 
 
 













