addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Thirty five scholars from 14 countries are arriving in UAE as part of Scholars, Guests of HH the President, to revive the nights of Ramadan along with preachers and scholars based in UAE. The programme is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and held under the stewardship of HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs. 
The announcement was made at a press conference by Awqaf on June 23, 2014, in St Regis Hotel in Abu Dhabi. In it Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Director General, said that the UAE wise leadership had followed the tradition of the Founding Father, late Sheikh Zayed bin sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, and other Sheikhs of the Emirates by inviting elite scholars from the Arab and the Islamic world.  The guest scholars will deliver lectures in mosques, majlises, forums and community institutions. The themes of their lessons are geared towards promoting sound fundamentals of religion and moderate Islamic discourse. The programme has been years around and hosted scholars with wide interests ranging from Islamic economy, Fiqh and Fatwa, moderate thought, to many other novel branches of knoweldge.
Topics were selected in consultation with community organisations and entities, which request every year to allocate a number of lectures to be given to its members of staff.
On the occasion of the holy month of Ramadan, Dr al Kaabi extended his sincere congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah protect him, and their brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and to HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.  Dr al Kaabi also expressed his best wishes to the UAE people and to the whole world.
Dr al Kaabi offered his sincere thanks to HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan for his keen interest in the Scholars-Guests of the UAE President, which is implemented by Awqaf through experienced committees. He also thanked Mr Ahmed Mohammed al Humairi, the Minsitry secretary general. 
He pointed out that the Arab and Islammic world, especially those societies enduring unfolding developments, are looking forward to Ramadan's spiritual 'breeze' to alleviate their burden. Dr al Kaabi emphasised here that Islam is a religion of mercy and harmony and by no means a realm of violence.   Asked about lectures' themes in Ramadan and whether scholars will discuss the situation in the Arab countries, Dr al Kaabi stressed that they would highlight that Islam is a religion of mercy. The conference was attended by the executive directors, branch directors and heads of departments as well as a host of journalists. 
This year sees the participation of Dr Mr Mohammed Mukhtar Jumaa Mabrook, Egyptian Minister of Awqaf, Dr Ahmed Taoufiq, Moroccan Minister of Awqaf and Islamic Affairs, Dr Mohamed Nouh Ali Maabdeh Rehab, former Minister of Awqaf and Islamic Affairs in Jordan, Dr Abbas Abdalla Abbas Soliman, former Secretary General of Al Azhar, Egypt, His Eminence Mohammed Salah Eddine bin Al Habib al Mestaoui, Secretray General of the Supreme Islamic Council in Tunisia, and His Eminence Ahmed bin Mohammed bin Alawi Maliki, Head of Hijaz Council of Scholars.  Other scholars include Dr Shawqi Abdul Karim Mussa, Mufti of Egypt, His Eminence Mohammed Taqi Othmani, Mufti of Pakistan and Deputy chairman of Dar Al Alum in Karachi, His Eminence Mohamed  Nouh Ali Mballa, chairman of the Fatwa and Grievances' Council, Mauritania, His Eminence Wan Zahidi bin Wan Teh, Former Mufti of Malaysia in addition to ten deans and professors from Al Azhar, who have been recommended by His eminence Ahmed Al Tayeb, Grand Imam of Al Azhar in recognition of the prominent status of this institution.
In detail, Dr al Kaabi explained that there will be about 800 lectures around 30 subjects, including featured talks on Waqf and seminars designed for Imams, Muezzins, preachers and Quran instructors. There will also be cultural eveneings, of which four dedicated to national service and its impact on society and two more on the impact of social media, as well as the daily particpations of the guest scholars in various UAE radio and TV shows.
 













