addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Bestower. He has guided us to Islam and blessed us further with His favours in Ramadan. We extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status, and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Him and do good in light of what He says, "and take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al Baqara: 197). 
Dear Believers,
The Almighty's bounties are givings that never come to an end. He bestowed them upon whom He wills so their recipients praise Him in return. And whoever is blessed with His favours must acknowledge them by thanking Allah, and whoever denies them will be unfortunate and a loser. Allah has urged us in many places to remember and appreciate his blessings as in this verse: "O mankind, remember the favour of Allah upon you. Is there any creator other than Allah who provides for you from the heaven and earth? There is no deity except Him, so how are you deluded?" (Fatir: 3).
Also the Almighty draws also our attention to his generous blessings when He says, "do you not see that Allah has made subject to you whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth and amply bestowed upon you His favours, [both] apparent and unapparent?" (Luqman: 20).
Interpreters explained that the apparent blessings are the tangible ones that can be seen and felt like wealth, prestige, status, beauty in people, and fulfillment of worships, while the unapparent ones refer to such personal qualities as knowledge of Allah and good faith in Him.
O who fast,
The Exalted is He says, "but as for the favour of your Lord, report [it]," being a call to the believers to thank Him for the boundless blessings He has granted them. As such, [Let us never forget] that we live in a safe prosperous country where people feel secure about their lives, wealth and integrity. Indeed, it is a great grace that only those who do not have it realise its value. We are also fortunate to be bestowed upon us wise leaders who seek sincerley to serve people and do whatever it requires to make them happy. We pray to Allah to give them the best of rewards.
Dear Muslims,
Thanks to the instructions of our leadership and the efforts of philanthropists, people inside and outside the country hail the givings of this nation. And with the advent of Ramadan, the month of goodness and generosity, food supplies (Ramadan Mir) have been distributed to families, Ramadan tents have been set up to serve Iftar and the country has been honoured with the arrival of prominent scholars-guests of HH the UAE President- may Allah protect him.
UAE has also been credited for taking care of the holy Quran in line with the orders of our Prophet pbuh: "the best among you is he who learns and teaches the Quran." It does so by encouraing people to study it, printing it and distributing it inside and outside the country. It also allocates valuable prizes for Quran which raise competition amongst memorisers.
Moreover, UAE is there for everyone to witness and admire its well-maintained mosques. They are amongst the most beautiful ones all over the world in terms of design and architecture, let alone being successful in achieving their role.
On another level, and as an act of generosity by our leadership, many prisoners were pardoned, hence bringing happiness to their families and loved ones. Allah's Messenger says, "the most loved deeds to Allah the Exalted are making a Muslim happy." Our country has also been keen to bring relief to where people enduring difficult times.
Dear Servants of Allah,
There have been many humanitarian intiatives, including the recent one titled UAE Water Aid, which is led by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, may Allah protect him. This campaign aims to provide clean drinking water to five million people around the world. It is a great intiative because it seeks to provide a commodity as vital to life as water. Allah says, "and made from water every living thing." (Al Anbiya: 30).
Our Prophet pbuh promised great reward to those who strive to provide water by digging a well or giving out an endowment for this purpose. He pbuh said,  "whoever digs a well from which a thirsty jin, human or a bird drink will receive reward from Allah on the Day of Judgment." Providing water is therefore seen as one of the best acts of charity and worships. It was narrated that Saad bin Ubadah said,  "O Messenger of Allah, what kind of charity is best?" He said, "providing drinking water."
It was also reported that Ibn Abbas was asked, "what is the best charity?" He said, "O Messenger of Allah, what is the kind of charity is best?" He said, "providing drinking water." Did not you hear when the Hell dwellers called on the people of Paradise for help saying, "pour upon us some water or from whatever Allah has provided you." (Al Aaraf: 50). This verse, interpreters explained, came to highlight giving water as one of the best good deeds. Moreover, Allah's Messenger pbuh promised those who did so an abode in Paradise as He says, "whichever believer gives drink to a thirsty believer, Allah gives him to drink from the 'sealed nectar' on the Day of Resurrection."
The merits of providing water is not limited to humans only, they extend to animals too. It was narrated in a Hadith that Allah-Exalted is He- forgave a man who had given a dog to drink. Praise be to Allah for his numerous blessings. And let us seize this opportunity by engaging in the UAE Water Aid action and seek Allah's reward in this blessed month.
May Allah bless the efforts of all those who reach out to the needy in order to meet their needs and relieve their agnony, especially during Ramadan, the month of goodness and charity.
O Allah, as You have granted us Your blessings help us appreciate them and cause them to last. O Allah, help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and be aware that Waqf  (endowments) plays a great part in society. It is one of the best things recommended by our religion and culture and is greatly rewarded, as well. Please also remember that those who place endowments will continue benefitting from their recompense until the Day of Judgment.
Caliph Uthman, may Allah be pleased with him, was a great example in this regard; he bought a well called Rumah that no one drank from the well but had to pay for it. After he bought it he made it for everyone, be they rich, poor or wayfarers.
With this noble spirit, our wise leadership has always been keen to promote Waqf amongst people and has set up rules to regulate its projects. May Allah recompense all philanthropists who offer endowments, donate to them or contribute to charitable projects of benefit to society.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, accept our fasting, prayers and good deeds. O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
Translation  Mostapha El Mouloudi   Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts. 
 
 













