addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status, and I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him and the most generous of all people. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18). The Exalted is He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Believers,
By His grace, the Almighty has devoted to us a month of giving and worship. In it He raises the status of His worshippers. So those who give more, Allah will recompense them further and forgive their misdeeds. In a Qudsi Hadith, the Exalted and Glorious, stated:  "he who comes with goodness, there are in store for him ten like those and even more than those: 'and he who comes with vice, ' it is only for that that he is called to account. I even forgive him (as I like) and he who draws close to Me by the span of a palm I draw close to him by the cubit, and he who draws close to Me by the cubit I draw close to him by the space (covered) by two hands, and he who walks towards Me I rush towards him, and he who meets Me in the state that his sins fill the earth, but not associating anything with Me, I would meet Him with the same (vastness) of pardon (on My behalf)."
Dear Servants  of Allah,
Helping others and do good are among the most praised acts pleasing Allah and bringing the individual closer to Him. Thus, anyone who does so shall receive blessed reward and whoever treats people badly shall be deprived of it and be punished. Our Prophet pbuh said, "some people open the door to good and close the door to evil, and some people open the door to evil and close the door to good. Glad tidings to those in whose hands Allah places they keys to good, and woe to those in whose hands Allah places the keys to evil."
Serving people is such an act of piety that, by the grace of Allah, earns those who have engaged in it Paradise. Similarly, it is a protection from shame and loss. Indeed, Allah's Messenger was an example for all Creation in acts of kindness and generosity towards people. He used to be the first to give and the first to urge others taking good actions so much so that Saiyda Khadija addressed him saying, "by Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones."
Certianly if the individual and the community at large possess those lofty qualities, Allah, by His favour, will confer upon them stability and prosperity. The Exalted is He says, "whoever does righteousness, whether male or female, while he is a believer - We will surely cause him to live a good life, and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according to the best of what they used to do." (Annahl: 97).
Please be aware that in Ramadan, a month of opportunities, Allah the Almighty rewards generously the acts of piety and recompenses His servants who compete one another for remembering and praising Him. Allah the most Exalted says, "and whoever volunteers good - then indeed, Allah is appreciative and Knowing." (Al Baqara: 158).
In this verse Allah describes Himself with one of His Best Names: The Appreciative. That is, He accepts from His Servants their good actions, although they are in smaller amount, yet He recompenses them greatly. If His servants obey Him, Allah will help them to do so by enlightening their hearts and  giving them strength and blessings in all matters of their life. Part of that Divine reward is that whoever abondons something for the sake of Allah, His Lord will compensate him for it with something even better. And those who strive in acts of worship will have many folds of rewards in store for them. Allah the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah does not do injustice, [even] as much as an atom's weight; while if there is a good deed, He multiplies it and gives from Himself a great reward." (Annisaa: 40). Furthermore, those who dedicate themselves to serving others will be closer to Allah and loved by Him and people.
On this matter, Allah's Messenger pbuh says, "the most beloved of people according to Allah is he who brings most benefit to people, and the most beloved of deeds according to Allah the Mighty, the Magnificent, is that you bring happiness to a fellow Muslim, or relieve him of distress, or pay off his debt or stave away hunger from him. It is more beloved to me that I walk with my brother Muslim in his time of need than I stay secluded in the mosque for a month."
Dear Muslims,
In fact, all forms of humanitarian work help to highlight the bright image of Islam and its active role in life and civilisation-building. They also show the great impact they have on the individual and society, as they promote communication, harmony and solidarity. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh urged us to engage in every aspect of actions aiming at bringing relief and happiness to others. He pbuh explained that people who relieve distress of others shall receive Allah's praise and reward. Allah's Messenger said, "I saw a person enjoying himself in Paradise because of the tree that he cut from the path which was a source of inconvenience to the people."
The one who brings relief to those afflicted by distress and grief, Allah the Almighty will pardon him.  It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "before your time a man was called to account and it was found that the only good thing he had done was that he was easy in his business dealings with people. He used to order his servants to go easy with people who were in difficulty. Allah Almighty said, 'We are more entitled to do that than he is, so forgive him'." 
Knowing this, if we help the needy and serve the widows and orphans and bring relief to sick people, we shall, by the grace of Allah, win His great satisfaction and reward.
O Allah, as You have made us reach Ramadan we pray to You to help us to do good work and serve others. O Allah, save us from Hellfire and grant us Your Paradise. O Allah, help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Zayed the Benevolent, may Allah rest his soul in peace, was at the forefront of charitable giving and willing to bring relief to the distraught people. His offspring are no exception. They have acquired those good qualities and followed his path in doing good and helping the needy and the afflicted.
In firm continuation of this sound approach and in light of the historic solidarity between UAE and the Palestinian people, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President,  may Allah protect him, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, ordered an urgent humanitarian aid of USD 25 million to support the Palestinians. The initiative is under the kind stewardship of HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Ruler's Representative in the Western Region and the UAE Red Crescent Authority (RCA)'s Chairman. The RCA will directly oversee the implementation of the aid.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah protect Muslims, their children, homes and wealth, secure them against fear and always support their quest for the right cause.
O Allah, accept our fasting, prayers and good actions. O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













