addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah Who has blessed Ramadan with greater virtues and blessings. He has also made it a good time for repentance and forgiveness. In it, He the Almighty sent the Quran, a clear proof of guidance and criterion. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger who said, "whoever spends the night of Laylat Al-Qadr in prayer out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins." May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al Baqara: 183).
Dear Muslims,
The Exalted is He says, "and your Lord creates what He wills and chooses." (Al Qasas: 68). Ramadan is one of those blessed  times, a month of giving that Allah the Almighty has chosen for increasing worships and asking forgiveness. It is one of the dearest times to Allah for people to get closer to Him, yet the last ten days of Ramadan have even greater status so much so that they are the best days over times.
Allah bless them with limitless virtues, hence offering the opportunity for more people to repent, the generous to give and the deficient in worships to pray duly and observe other religious duties. The Prophet pbuh said, "and may a man upon whom Ramadan enters and then passes, before he is forgiven."
O who fast,
Prepare yourselves for receiving your Lord's promise of forgiveness and great reward. To achieve that, strive in acts of worship and do good deeds. Please know that a Muslim is between two fates. One has passed which he does not know what Allah may decide about it. The second one, still unfolding, but he knows nothing about what Allah may bring in. "so whoever does an atom's weight of good will see it, and whoever does an atom's weight of evil will see it." (Azzalzala: 7-8).
In the last ten days of Ramadan, our Prophet pbuh used to strive in acts of worships more that he would in the rest of  the year. Truly, they are blessed nights for the believers to compete. It was narrated by Sayida Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, that during the last ten days the Prophet pbuh would strive more in prayers and stand up for them more than he sleep. Sayida Aisha also said, "when the last ten days of Ramadan came, the Prophet pbuh would stay up at night for prayer, wake up his family and gird his loins."
Sufiyan Attawri, a scholar, said, "the acts dearest to me during the last ten days of Ramadan are Tahajjud Salah [night prayer] and a (man) waking up one's family to do that if they can." Knowing that, please be keen to perform Taraweeh to earn the rewards of standing up and observing night prayers.  
O who fast,
Ramadan days and nights will end soon. Because of its virtues, early Muslims would console each other as Ramadan was drawing to an end. One of its merits is Laylat Al-Qadr (the Night of Decree), when the Quran verses were sent. Allah says, "indeed, We sent it down during a blessed night." (Addukhan: 3). Truly it is a night of a kind, whose reward is better than a thousand months. In it the Almighty gave Jibreel pbuh together with angels the permit to descend.
"Indeed, We sent the Quran down during the Night of Decree. And what can make you know what is the Night of Decree? The Night of Decree is better than a thousand months. The angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter. Peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al-Qadr: 1-5).
In its interpretation, Surat Al-Qadr reports the descent of the angels from Sudrat al Mutaha (Lote tree- that marks the end of the seventh heaven) where lies Jibreel's dwelling. They came to earth to say Amin following people's supplications until dawn sits in.
Our Prophet pbuh mentioned that Laylat Al-Qadr occurs in the last ten days of Ramadan. He pbuh said, "seek the Night of Al-Qadr during the last ten (nights) of Ramadan." Indeed whoever succeeds in staying up for prayers and supplications at this sacred night, he shall be forgiven. And whoever is deprived of its good, then he has truly been deprived.
In it, prayers and acts of worships are better than a thousand months. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "In it- that is Ramadan- Allah has a night which is better than a thousand months; whoever is deprived of its goodness is indeed deprived."
So rush to your Lord by devoting your nights for prayer and humbly asking His pardon. Do not consider one night only because you do not know for sure which one of them is actually Laylat Al-Qadr. That is why scholars said the wisdom of not revealing this night is to keep worshippers diligent throughout the last ten days of Ramadan.
O who fast, be keen to stay up all of these nights if you would like to achieve your goals. So those who feared the position of their Lord, they would secure a happy ending. Our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever fears traveling at night - and whoever travels at night reaches his destination - Allah provides him with the most precious of goods, and indeed Allah's goods are but Paradise."
Having this in mind, we seek our Lord to bless for us these days and make us among those who observe Laylat Al-Qadr. May Allah bestow upon us His bounties and help us to obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Laylat Al-Qadr is a night of serenity, peace and faith. It is a time when neither argument, nor strife must occur amongst people. In this regard, Allah-the Exalted is He- says, "peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al-Qadr: 5). Also clear your hearts of any feelings of rancour, envy or hatred and prepare yourselves to receive the blessings of this night.
 It was narrated by Ubada bin As-Samit that Allah's Apostle pbuh went out to inform the people about the (date of the) Al-Qadr but there happened a quarrel between two Muslim men. The Prophet said, "I came out to inform you about (the date of) the night of Al-Qadr, but as so and so and so and so quarrelled, its knowledge was taken away (I forgot it) and maybe it was better for you."
Dear Believers, busy yourselves with Dhikr and supplications as it was reported by Saiyda Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, when she said "O Messenger of Allah, what do you think I should say in my supplication, if I come upon Laylat Al-Qadr?" He pbuh said: "Say: 'Allahumma innaka 'afuwwun tuhibbul-alaafwa, faafuanni (You are Forgiving and love forgiveness, so forgive me)'." 
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, accept our fasting, prayers and good actions. O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













