addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf's director general spoke to a gathering of Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins from Umm Al Quwain and Ajman. Held in the UAQ Cultural Centre, the meeting was attended by Islamic Affair's executive directors and branch directors and looked into mosques' readiness to receive worshippers during Ramadan. 
At the outset of the meeting, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi prayed to Allah to grant abundant health to HH Sheikh Khalifa, the UAE President, to his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President and Ruler of Dubai, to their bothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates and Memebers of the Supreme Council and to HH the General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. He also greeted the wise leadership and the UAE people on the occasion of Ramadan.
In his speech, he urged Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins to make of mosques oases of faith, learning and study of Quran. He also brought into focus their role as places of worship and guidance with civilisational significance. From this perspective, Awqaf is fully aware of the leadership's keen interest in mosques and appreciates their continuous support as they provide all what it needs to raise the status of the mosque as well as that of the Imam, Khateeb and Muezzin.
Dr al Kaabi called on the audience to supplicate to Allah to grant continued health to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy, his brothers Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi.
Dr al Kaabi stressed the necessity to comply with Awqaf's approach and mission aiming at promoting religious awareness on the basis of moderate principles. The latter shun every aspect of extreme views, partisanship, or any other affiliations that do not fit the status of the Imam within the community. He also highlighted the fact that Imams, Khateebs and Muezzins must set a good example for others.
Dr al Kaabi praised the kind initiative of HH the UAE President to host elite scholars and thinkers during Ramadan, and invited Imams to benefit from their lectures in mosques and direct people to them. He also instructed Imams to read out the preaching lessons daily after Salat Al-Asr and promote the true religious values through the second volume of "Mosque Lessons".
The book, which is prepared by Awqaf and published in a fine edition, contains a compilation of religious lessons set in a balanced length.
On another note, Dr al Kaabi asked Imams to avoid lengthy Taraweeh to make them easy for worshippers. At the same time, he pointed out that Awqaf made availabe some mosques in every city where individuals can still attend lengthy Taraweeh if they wish. He also stressed the issue of begging in mosques and giving out money there. This is an acceptable, he said, as UAE had spared no efforts in providing decent living for all.
A question and answer session was held at the end of the gathering for Imams and Khateebs to express their points of view. Dr al Kaabi promised them that Awqaf would provide suitable accommodation close to mosques and organise specialised training workshops to enrich their knowledge and introduce them to latest trends in thought and most updated Fatwas. 
 













