addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah Who has helped us to stand up for night prayers and fast. May Allah grant us entry to Paradise through Al Rayan gate. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. He is the Subduer, the Mighty and the most Forgiving. He creates whatever He wishes and all praise-with no beginning or an end, whether manifest or hidden-  is to Him.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al Baqara: 183).
O who fast,
Some days ago we have received Ramadan and now we are bidding farewell to this blessed month. Indeed glorious is Allah Who devises the months and the years and imposes the rulings. The forunate is, therefore, he who invests his time in obeying his Lord as our Prophet pbuh said, "all men go out early in the morning and sell themselves, thereby setting themselves free or destroying themselves."
As Ramadan is coming to an end, those who have strived hard will be registered as [righteous] workers for the good deeds they have committed to. Allah the Almighty says, "and whatever good you put forward for yourselves - you will find it with Allah ." (Al Muzzammil: 20).
Glad tidings upon you; you have fasted and you are promised intercession and unlimited rewards. And while you are doing so, you have adorned your voices with reading Quran. As a recompense, fasting and Quran will ultimately stand by you on the Day of Judgement. Allah, by His grace, will accept your intercession and be pleased with you. Allah's Messenger said, "fasting and Quran will intercede on behalf of the servant of Allah, fasting will say, "O Allah, I deprived him from eating and drinking, let me intercede for him." In addition, The Quran says, "O Allah I deprived him from sleeping at night let me intercede for him." At the end, they are permitted to intercede on his behalf" 
Dear Muslims, 
To bring greater value to our fasting and repair potential flaws related to it, Allah has presercribed for us Zakat Al Fitr. It is enjoined upon us to achieve lofty goals. Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh enjoined Zakat Al Fitr on the one who fasts (i.e., fasted during the month of Ramadan) to purify him from any indecent act or speech and for the purpose of providing food for the needy.
The Prophet pbuh would address people before Eid al Fitr and ordered them to give it out before the end of Ramadan. In one of his sermons, he pbuh said, "exert a Saa (measure) of  Burr or Qamh (a type of wheat) for two people, or one Saa of dry dates, or one Saa of Shaeer (barely), for every one free man, slave, child, and parents." It is required of all [able] Muslims, who can either pay it in cash or in kind from the common staple food of the community, on behalf of their dependents. It is estimated in UAE at 20 dirhams per person.  
Muslims must deliver Zakat, fulfill their fasting and continue observing acts of obedience unremittingly. That way, they will receive due rewards. The Almighty says, "so when you have finished [your duties], then stand up [for worship]." (Asharh: 7).  Concerning this verse, interpreters said that it invites Muslims to engage always in useful actions and  fill their time with beneficial work.
Dear Servants  of Allah, 
Our Lord has made for us Eid as a special moment for delight to cherish and enjoy the things He has permitted for us after observinig the religious duties. Yet, we need to consider some acts on that great day as instrucetd by our Prophet pbuh, including washing onself before heading for Eid prayer. Nafi reported that Abdullah ibn Umar used to do ghusl on the day of Fitr before going to the place of prayer.
It is also preferable for men to wear perfume and put on the best of clothes. Worshippers going to Eid prayers are advised to have some dates just like the Prophet pbuh used to do. It was narrated that Allah's Messenger pbuh never proceeded (for the prayer) on the Day of Eid Al Fitr unless he had eaten some dates. Anas also narrated: The Prophet pbuh used to eat odd number of dates.
Ali ibn Abu Talib, may Allah be pleased with him, said that it was of Sunna to go for Eid prayer walking if possible, and take a different road while on the way back.
It was narrated by Jabir, may Allah be pleased with him, that on the Day of Eid, the Prophet pbuh used to return (after offering the Eid prayer) through a way different from that by which he went.
Also the Eid etiquette has is that all able people, old and young, men and women, should go out for prayer. Um Atiyya said, "our Prophet ordered us to come out (on Eid day) with the mature girls and the virgins staying in seclusion."
With knowledge of this, please come with your family to mosques and places of worship to attend Eid prayer and obtain reward.
Having this in mind,  we seek our Lord to bless for us the remaining days of Ramadan and make us to be among those who will witness Eid. O Allah, help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that it is of Sunna to be audible when you do your Takbir  (pronouncing of "Allahu Akbar- Allah is the Greatest), Tahlil (uttering the formula of faith: "la Illaha illa Allah- there is no deity but Allah) and Tahmid (saying "Al Hamdulillah"-praise and thank be to Allah). Please continue to do this until the Imam comes and says Takbir. Then follow his Takbir.
On the Eid day, you are advised to greet people around whether you know them or not. The Prophet's Companions used to say to each other: "may Allah accept the good deeds from you and from us." Greetings can also be through any other known words for congratulations.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, accept our fasting, prayers and good actions. O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and  continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha el Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













