addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah, the Exalted, the Bestower. He sent the Scripture as guidance and a reminder for those of understanding. We extol Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status, and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, the Intercessor, the one whose intercession is accepted on the Last Day. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al Baqara: 197).
Dear Muslims,
The Exalted is He has granted us numerous provisions. He says, "and He gave you from all you asked of Him. And if you should count the favour of Allah, you could not enumerate them." (Ibrahim: 34). One's mind is one of the greatest and beneficial blessings Allah has bestowed upon us. The Almighty says, "and Allah has extracted you from the wombs of your mothers not knowing a thing, and He made for you hearing and vision and intellect that perhaps you would be grateful." (Annahl: 78).  With the grace of mind, man lives and differentiates between what is good and what is bad and through which he thinks, contemplates and learns.
The rational people are those who understand. In many places in Quran they are praised. Allah says, "indeed, in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of the night and the day are signs for those of understanding. Who remember Allah while standing or sitting or [lying] on their sides and give thought to the creation of the heavens and the earth, [saying], "Our Lord, You did not create this aimlessly; exalted are You [above such a thing]; then protect us from the punishment of the Fire." (All Imran: 190-191). 
They are depicted as people who think, ponder, learn from their lessons, improve their relationship with their Lord, feel His Greatness and keep their tongues moist with Dhikr. Thus they venerate Him, fear Him and respect Him in all aspects of their affairs in hope that they receive His mercy and ultimate reward: Paradise.
Allah the most Exalted says, "is one who is devoutly obedient during periods of the night, prostrating and standing [in prayer], fearing the Hereafter and hoping for the mercy of his Lord, [like one who does not]? Say, "Are those who know equal to those who do not know?" Only they will remember [who are] people of understanding." (Azzumar: 9)
Dear Servants of Allah,
People of understanding are keen to contemplate what Allah says as is shown in this verse, "[this is] a blessed Book which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that they might reflect upon its verses and that those of understanding would be reminded." (Sad: 29). They follow its founding verses and believe in the unspecific ones too. In this regard, the Almighty says, "it is He who has sent down to you, [O Muhammad], the Book; in it are verses [that are] precise - they are the foundation of the Book - and others unspecific. As for those in whose hearts is deviation [from truth], they will follow that of it which is unspecific, seeking discord and seeking an interpretation [suitable to them]. And no one knows its [true] interpretation except Allah. But those firm in knowledge say, "We believe in it. All [of it] is from our Lord." And no one will be reminded except those of understanding." (Al Imran: 7). That is, they read the Quran, obey its orders and respect all that it prohibits.
To them Allah says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it. Those are the ones Allah has guided, and those are people of understanding." (Azzumar: 17-18). Blessed are those who look into Allah's Creation and remember Him, read His Book and ponder its meanings, obey Him and never cease to worship Him
Dear Muslims,
Repeatedly in the Quran, people of understanding are shown as those who grasp the meanings of such verses thanks to their open minds, and treat others according to their Lord's orders. They are also described as having good qualities and pursuing noble values. Allah says, "then is he who knows that what has been revealed to you from your Lord is the truth like one who is blind? They will only be reminded who are people of understanding -those who fulfill the covenant of Allah and do not break the contract." (Arraad: 19-20). They distinguish between right and wrong and know that what Allah revealed to His Apostle pbuh is the evident truth. Likewise, they are aware that following Allah's guidance is the right path. And if they promise, they fulfill the covenant and never violate their pledge before their Lord.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Furthermore, wise people honour the ties of kinship, and deal with people kindly as the Almighty says, "and those who join that which Allah has ordered to be joined and fear their Lord and are afraid of the evil of [their] account." (Arraad: 21). They are extremely apprehensive from fear of that instant. So they prepare for the Hereafter by being righteous in all aspects of their life.
To remain virtuous, they keep themselves away from sins and turn to good deeds. Thus they observe prayers as it should be, pay Zakat, and give out charity willingly. Allah says, "and those who are patient, seeking the countenance of their Lord, and establish prayer and spend from what We have provided for them secretly and publicly." (Arraad: 22). They replace misdeeds with good deeds and charity in return for abuse. So if someone treats them badly, they tolerate his behaviour and forgive him instead, as the Almighty says, "and prevent evil with good - those will have the good consequence of [this] home." (Arraad: 22).
 Their kind character also reflects the Hadith saying: "fear Allah wherever you are, do good deeds after doing bad ones, the former will wipe out the latter, and behave decently towards people."
Also, sensible people can foresee the likely consequences and act wisely in various matters. In so doing, they take into consideration the general interest of all, avoiding falling into temptations and preserving the capabilities and acquisitions of the nation. Allah says, "He gives wisdom to whom He wills, and whoever has been given wisdom has certainly been given much good. And none will remember except those of understanding." (Al Baqara: 269).
Knowing this, one has to strive to possess those qualities in order for him to be successful in his work, active in his community, beneficial to his country, and a role model for his children and family. Certainly, achieving these things shall entitle him to succeed in this life and the next.
With this in mind, may Allah bless us with good thinking and wisdom. May Allah help us also to obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed upon us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah the way he should be obeyed and duly observe Him in private and in public. We should have no doubt that one of the favours of Allah to people of understanding is bringing them into the Gardens of perpetual bliss with their families, relatives and loved ones. Allah says, "gardens of perpetual residence; they will enter them with whoever were righteous among their fathers, their spouses and their descendants. And the angels will enter upon them from every gate, [saying], 'peace be upon you for what you patiently endured. And excellent is the final home'." (Arraad: 23-24).
 This means that that they are doubly rewarded, as they are not going to enter Paradise alone. Rather, they will be reunited with their beloved ones; whoever were virtuous amongst their spouses and parents so their souls can enjoy their company. The angels, for their part, will come in to greet them and congratulate them for the ultimate blessing of Paradise, being a permanent abode for them nearby the steadfast affirmers of truth and Allah's Prophets and Messengers. Allah says, "peace be upon you for what you patiently endured. And excellent is the final home." (Arraad: 24). Truly, the fortunate is he who fulfills the covenant, obeys Allah and follows His guidance.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs:
Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah make us among those of understanding, so we can ponder, think wisely in all matters that are dear to You, O the most just of Judges.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













