addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise be to Allah, the Creator, the Provider, the most Great. We thank Him for blessing us with one of the best homelands. In it, He grants us peace and stability.  I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also testify that Muhammad is Allah's Servant and Messenger, the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. He sent him as a mercy to the Worlds. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty, obey Him and do that which pleases Him, in light of what He says, "and cooperate in righteousness and piety, but do not cooperate in sin and aggression. And fear Allah." (Al Maeda: 2). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Loving one's homeland is an instinct inherent in man, and is deeply seated in heart. We grow to love our country and bear always affection and admiration for it. A great blessing from Allah, it encompasses our memories, letting us always long for it and enjoy thinking about it. This beautiful feeling we have towards our own country is a motivation for us to serve it well and be keen to attend to its interests. This calls on us also to pray to Allah genuinely as did our Allah's Messenger Ibrahim pbuh. He was quoted in the Quran as saying, "my Lord, make this a secure city and provide its people with fruits." (Al Baqara: 126).  It was a sincere supplication, which reflected Ibrahim pbuh's absolute feelings of love towards his homeland and people.
Devotion to one's country is widely highlighted by many scholars. They associated it with one's honesty and stated that it is an obligation. It is often said that in order to know whether a person is sincere in fulfilling his pledge, find out how much he yearns for his country, friends and family.
Dear Believers,
We praise Allah that He grants us a nice living in UAE, our beloved country. Its leadership are wise and in it life is stable. Resources are plentiful too. Its mosques are beacons of knowledge, its buildings are icons of civilisation and culture, its infrastructure and facilities are world-class. Boasting honourable people, it has embraced happiness and seen its glory rising. As we enjoy living under the shadow of its wings, we are always pining for it. So each time we are away, we look forward to coming back.
It is our duty therefore to be grateful to the Almighty for such wholesome blessings. Indeed, showing gratitude is a protection to the existing gifts from Allah and a cause to bring in more. The Exalted is He says, "and [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, 'If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor]." (Ibrahim: 7). That is, Allah will give to whoever ask Him, and expand His grace to those who thank Him. Please be aware that Allah is the Provider who loves his grateful servants. So let us thank Him for His countless favours on us.
To thank our Lord further for the blessings He grants us in this country, it is our obligation to defend it and safeguard its integrity. When the nation summons its sons and daughters, they shall answer the call of duty with determination. Thus they will come and stand ready to protect their country's borders strong-handedly and keep its flag flown high above. In so doing, they will work for preserving their homeland's achievements and in no way will they unfail in their endeavour. Those are blessed as evidenced in the following Hadith: "there are two eyes that shall not be touched by the Fire: an eye that wept from the fear of Allah, and an eye that spent the night standing on guard in the cause of Allah." Congratulations to individuals who dedicate themselves to the safety of this nation, where Islam's rituals and principles are held and people's lives, property and dignity are preserved.
Yes dear Muslims, We have to value the blessing of the nation the way it should be and likewise care for it. Let us know also that we are obliged to our country for all the good things it has offered us. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "Allah will ask each guardian about those whom He asked him to guard, whether he kept or lost that, that He will ask each man about his family."
This should be seen in our sincere sense of belonging to our nation and firm and unwavering loyalty to our judicious leaders. Under their patronage, the religion is safeguarded and everyone is united. Also thanks to them, stability is ensured and justice is delivered. By virtue of religion, obeying them is a duty as mentioned in the holy Quran and comes associated with that of Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, and His Apostle Muhammad pbuh. The Almighty Allah says in this regard, "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
Furthermore, we are also obliged to our country in many other ways, mostly by serving it. This is a high honour and a medal on our chest. Servicemen and women are honoured in this life and shall receive higher status in Paradise.
From this perspective, joining the national service is a duty, a mission of merit and responsibility. It is a notable assignment, one that consolidates noble values amongst the youth and highlights such meanings of devotion, allegiance to and sacrifice for this generous country. It is also an opportunity for them to train on positive behaviours. For these reasons and others, it is a great honour for our youth to hasten and sign up for national service. It is an arena of competition, self-reliance, discipline, strength and activity in line with the Hadith saying, "a believer who is strong (and healthy) is better and dearer to Allah than the weak believer."
O those who have answered the call please know that this is also an honour for your parents, your sons and daughters and a success that adds to your achievements. As well as a source of pride to one's family and country, it is a means to promote values and principles, preparing the good citizen, who is capable of defending his country and is aware of its capabilities and acquisitions. Moreover, the national service is a school to qualify ambitious and confident citizens, who are adherent to their heritage, faithful to their nation, good in conduct, sympathetic towards their fellow community members, wise and honest in their actions.
With this in mind, we supplicated to Allah to bless UAE and help us serve it. May Allah also protect our leaders and rulers.
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,  please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that one of His favours in this country is blessing us with a wise leadership that have allowed our youth the opportunity to join the national service. This is an initiative with the goal of increasing synergy and sense of harmony amongst our citizens, promoting teamwork, honing one's personality and acquiring vast knowledge, remarkable skills and positive behaviour.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













