addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
 
All praise be to Allah, who promised patients reward without account. I extol Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imaran: 200). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Believers,
Allah has created man, who may see affliction in this life by His Lord as evidenced in this verse: "indeed, We created man from a sperm-drop mixture that We may try him; and We made him hearing and seeing." (Al Insan: 2). Allah has warned him of things to do and things to avoid. In return, He promised him Paradise as a reward if he obeyed Him and cautioned him of Hellfire if he did not.
The Almighty Allah has made the road to Paradise fraught with difficulties, while that of Hellfire with desires. There is nothing man can do to overcome what he dislikes except by remaining patient and keeping his heart filled with the love of his Lord. Doing this would earn him the great prize: Allah's satisfaction. The Almighty says, "and Allah loves the steadfast." (Al Imran: 146). This is the quality of people who can stand above sucking in anxiety or over-complaining about pain and sufferings.
Patience or forebearance is Assabr in Arabic named after the Assabr plant (Cactus), which was used for extracting a medicinal substance known for its bitter taste. As an attitude and a personal trait, it reflects high ethics which Allah has made it a fort, hard to break, and a refuge, there to last. He ordered His servants to adorn themselves with such a character, a giving with reward that never depletes. 
The Almighty says, "indeed, the patient will be given their reward without account." (Azzumar: 10). He also decreed a good outcome for those who remain steadfast as He says,  "but to be patient is better for you." (Annisaa: 25). Likewise He says in another verse, " but if you are patient - it is better for those who are patient." (Annahl: 126). It is seen as one of the finest rewards a person may get in life. Our Prophet pbuh said, "no one is given a better or vaster gift than patience."
Dear Servants of Allah,
For the high status of patience, Allah the most Exalted chose it to be one of His Best Names: Assabur, the Patient One. This is to show that the Almighty is Merciful and His mercy is so encompassing that He, by his grace, will also forgive those who have disobeyed Him.
For the same reason, He praised His Messengers for their steadfast character. About Ayub (Job), He says, "indeed, We found him patient, an excellent servant. Indeed, he was one repeatedly turning back [to Allah ]." (Sad: 44). Allah highlights other examples when He says, "and [mention] Ishmael and Idrees and Dhul-Kifl; all were of the patient." (Al Anbiyaa: 85).
He also named the messengers known for their strong determination, having the highest standing and been the most patient amongst their counterparts. The Almighty ordered our Guide Muhammad pbuh to follow them in their capacity to endure difficult situation and stress. He pbuh was one of them and he was addressed in this regard by his Lord in the following verse: "so be patient, [O Muhammad], as were those of determination among the messengers." (Al Ahqaf: 35).
Prophets set the best example in patience as they stood firmly despite the harm they received from their own folk. Allah says, "and certainly were messengers denied before you, but they were patient over [the effects of] denial, and they were harmed until Our victory came to them." (Al Anaam: 34). This had only increased their resolve to fulfill their mission. They said to their people, "and why should we not rely upon Allah while He has guided us to our [good] ways. And we will surely be patient against whatever harm you should cause us. And upon Allah let those who would rely [indeed] rely." (Ibrahim: 12).
For their part, Prophets urged their people to stay patient. For example Musa (Moses) pbuh said, "seek help through Allah and be patient." (Al Aaraf: 128). It is the same advice carried on by the Prophet Muhammad, pbuh who instructed his Ummah to adhere to it. On this matter, he addressed his Companions saying, "ahead of you are the days in which patience is like holding onto an ember, for the doer (of righteous deeds) during them is the like of the reward of fifty of those who do the like of what you do." He (pbuh) was asked: "O Messenger of Allah, the reward of fifty men among us, or them?" He pbuh said: "no, rather the reward of fifty men among you."
Dear Muslims, 
Those who commit themselves to patience in this life will win an elevated  position in the Hereafter. Our Prophet pbuh said, "and patience is illumination." There are many types of patience, including self-restraint to avoid sins, firm will to engage continuously in acts of worship and positive attitude at times of adversity.
In one place Allah ordered His servants to be patient when worshipping Him. The Almighty says, "O you who have believed, seek help through patience and prayer. Indeed, Allah is with the patient." (Al Baqara: 153).  Because prayer  is a continuous obligation that requires patience and efforts, Allah says, "and enjoin prayer upon your family [and people] and be steadfast therein. We ask you not for provision; We provide for you, and the [best] outcome is for [those of] righteousness." (Taha: 133).
It was said that Exerting self-restraint not to commit sins is much easier than bearing Allah's punishment. Knowing this, the winners shall be those who strive to achieve what Allah has ordered, avoid what He has prohibited, prefer the Herafter over the life of the world, prevent themselves from unlawful inclination and control themselves lest to bow to their pressing desires.
Dear Servants of Allah,
As for patience in the face of suffering, the fortunate are also those who has embraced wisdom and remained resolute and steady. The Almighty says, "and We will surely test you with something of fear and hunger and a loss of wealth and lives and fruits, but give good tidings to the patient." (Al Baqara: 155). This is especially the lot for those who trust in Allah and be contented with what He has decreed for them.
In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "strange are the ways of a believer for there is good in every affair of his and this is not the case with anyone else except in the case of a believer, for if he has an occasion to feel delight, he thanks (God), thus there is a good for him in it, and if he gets into trouble and shows resignation (and endures it patiently), there is a good for him in it."
Therefore, those who show endurance will be dearly rewarded. By His favour, Allah will forgive them. He says, "who, when disaster strikes them, say, 'indeed we belong to Allah , and indeed to Him we will return.' Those are the ones upon whom are blessings from their Lord and mercy. And it is those who are the [rightly] guided." (Al Baqara: 156-157).
It was reported that Shuraih al Qadi, a man known for his virtuous character, said "if am troubled by a bad situation, I will thank Allah four times: I thank him that this is not the worst of all, I thank Him that He helped me to have endured it, I thank him that He helped me to have returned to Him at each instant I seek reward, and I thank Him that my misfortune is not in my faith."
Knowing this, we pray to Allah to give us patience and adorne us with its virtues. May Allah help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public. The Exalted is He says, "and not equal are the good deed and the bad. Repel [evil] by that [deed] which is better; and thereupon the one whom between you and him is enmity [will become] as though he was a devoted friend. But none is granted it except those who are patient, and none is granted it except one having a great portion [of good]." (Fussilat: 34-35).
Concerning this verse, Ibn Abbas, said, "Allah the most Exalted orderd his servants to be patient at times of anger, be tolerant in the face of ignorance and be forgiving if harmed. All of these noble characters require patience because it leads to success in various aspects of life. It appeases one's anger and guides him to control his behaviours and the way he treats others. Likewise it is essential for life... Without it, anger and irrational behaviour sit in.
A man said to the Prophet pbuh, "counsel me," so he pbuh said, "do not become angry." The man repeated [his request for counsel] several times, and [each time] he pbuh said, "do not become angry."
Controlling one's temper and being patient are interelated, as the latter leads to high morals. And whoever adheres to patience in his life shall receive rewards benefitting him in the Hereafter as promised by Allah, Who says, "peace be upon you for what you patiently endured. And excellent is the final home." (Arraad: 24).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
 May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
 O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her  parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
 O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha el Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













