addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah Who has ordained for us the perfect religion. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates and that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. He sent him as a Mercy to the Worlds and an Evidence for all Creation.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and indeed this, your religion, is one religion, and I am your Lord, so fear Me." (Al Muaminun:52). He says also, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Islam is a religion of forgiveness and leniency. It appeals to people, and let them accept it. Thus it comes to emphasise good morals, lay the foundations of moderation, safeguard human rights, and establish such finest cultural values of coexistence, tolerance and solidarity. Then there has emerged the eternal message of mercy and peace for all mankind. Allah says, "and We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the world." (Al Anbiyaa: 107). In the same regard, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "actually I was awarded mercy (by Allah)."
This authentic principle is being thoroughly stressed in Islam as he pbuh said, "he who shows no mercy to the people, Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, does not show mercy to him." He pbuh said also, "mercy is taken away only from him who is miserable." Mercy in Islam is a virtue that encompasses also other creatures besides humans. Ibn Masud reported: "we were with the Messenger of Allah pbuh during a journey. He went to ease himself. We saw a bird with her two young ones and we captured her young ones. The bird came and began to spread its wings. The Messenger of Allah pbuh came and said, 'who grieved this for its young ones? Return its young ones to it'."
If the prophet pbuh prohibited us to cause suffering to a bird by taking its little chicks, so what would be the case with someone who inflicts grievance on another by taking the life of his brother or relative?
Dear Servants of Allah,
Indeed it is heartbreaking to see the tolerant teachings of Islam and the Prophetic tradition being violated out of proportion. This has been undertaken by sinful groups taking to extremist views and militancy and tarnishing the image of our tolerant religion. In total disregard of religious dictates and in cruelest manner, they unleash havoc, shedding blood and breaching sanctities. Disgracefully, they speak in the name of Islam and attribute their heinous crimes to it.
Nay they have utterly distorted Islam and its human ideals because they endorse an alien ideology that is contradictory to it. Truly, their radical attitude has killed their pure human nature and perceptions, rendering them insensible to morality and humanity. Can anybody then say that such crimes have anything to do with Islam?
Along this dark, unjust and deadly road have walked those people who are perpetrating unspeakable massacres; they kill others in cold blood and disfigure them. They have been tearing down buildings, spilling blood, violating integrities, assaulting women without respect to any of Islam's commands, nor to any of human values or principles. Here again arises a question: where are they from those religious texts that condemn the crimes they do?
Where are they from the incident involving Usama bin Zaid who raised his sword when he (the soldier of the polytheists) uttered: "there is no deity but Allah." But he (Usama bin Zaid) killed him.
The Messenger of Allah pbuh called for him and asked him why he had killed him. He (Usama) said, "O Messenger of Allah, he struck the Muslims and killed such and such of them. And he even named some of them. I attacked him and when he saw the sword he said, 'there is no deity but Allah'."
The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "did you kill him?" He (Usama) replied in the affirmative. He (the Holy Prophet) remarked: "what would you do with: 'there is no deity but Allah,' when he would come (before you) on the Day of Judgment?"
He (Usama) said, "O Messenger of Allah, beg pardon for me (from your Lord)." He (the Holy Prophet) said, "what would you do with: 'there is no deity but Allah' when he would come (before you) on the Day of Judgment? He (the Holy Prophet) added nothing to it but kept saying, "what would you do with: 'there is no deity but Allah' when he would come (before you) on the Day of Judgment?
"The Prophet kept on repeating that so often that I wished I had not embraced Islam before that day," Usama bin Zayed said.
Where are they from the Hadith of the Prophet of mercy pbuh saying, "a faithful believer remains at liberty regarding his religion unless he kills somebody unlawfully." Where are they from the severe warning contained in the words of the Prophet pbuh: "if this world were to be destroyed, that would be less significant before Allah than the unlawful killing of a believer."
Again where are they from the stern warning in the words of the Prophet pbuh: "if the inhabitants of the heavens and the inhabitants of the earth all took part in shedding the blood of believer, then Allah would cast them (all) in the Fire." How on earth can they ignore the Prophet's instructions:
"Whoever rebels against my Ummah, killing good and evil people alike, and does not try to avoid killing the believers, and does not pay attention to those who are under a covenant, then he has nothing to do with me and I have nothing to do with him."
So how will those people meet the Prophet pbuh on the Day of Judgment while they did not respect the sanctity of his Ummah, and ignored his warnings and orders.
As you can see these verses and Hadiths denounce categorically all forms of extremism and stress the fact that it is against our tolerant religion and call for fighting it by all means.
Dear Muslims,
Since militant ideology has reached this dark alarming level with their advocators having fallen deep in the abyss of impurity, losing sense of conscience and failing to listen to the voice of wisdom and comply with good guidance, then a firm action must be taken. This is required in order to preserve the religion from such an alien system of thought and protect people from the evil posed by those extremists and their gruesome acts. For these reasons and others, addressing the harm caused by those terrorists is legal and legitimate demand.
Having this in mind, may Allah save our nation from those corrupters and purify it from extremists.  May Allah help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, please obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and be aware that as the image of our religion is being stained by those groups' actions of killing innocents, violating sanctities, taking others' property, it is our duty to show to the world that this is contrary to the teachings of Islam. It is also our duty to warn against any misleading Fatwa that defends those corrupt groups or be deceived by it.
The responsibility rests as well with parents who need to protect their children from any intruding ideology by educating them following the true Islamic principles. The youth, boys and girls, for their part, must adhere to the guidance of genuine Islam and beware of radical ideas and of those who spread them, especially through electronic social network mediums. They also must stand alert not to let themselves be lured to slogans and allegations disseminated by terrorist organisations, which claim falsely glamourous slogans.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs:
Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah help us succeed in these blessed days in every work to please you, O Lord of the Worlds.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













