addthis_pub="newawqaf";















UAE pilgrims came back home from the Holy Sites with first flights landed at Abu Dhabi airport early this week. More flights had been expected until October 9. Families and well-wishers lined up to greet their relatives and friends as they returned safely.
On this occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, extended his sincere gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and HH Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for their keen interest in UAE pilgrims while they were performing Hajj.
He also hailed the impressive facilities and help that had been offered to the official Hajj delegation as well as the close follow-up by the UAE Hujjaj affairs' offfice.
In a statement Dr al Kaabi said that performing Hajj is not always free from hardship as pilgrims may face some obstacles which they are unfamiliar with. Yet, as he added the ultimate goal is to preserve and win this rite, for whoever sees this great gathering of Hujjaj (pilgrims) he can realise the mercy of Islam and the embodiment of religion.
"Indeed our religion is a mercy for all humanity. It has nothing to do with extremism and rejects every form of violence and fighting in the name of creed or faith." He said.
Thanking the UAE prudent leadership for their invaluable support and care, pilgrims expressed their satisfaction about the role of the UAE Hujjaj affairs' office. A pilgrim, Mr Salem Saeed al Shamsi, said that all services were available and the official delegation had been dedicated to help pilgrims perform Haj as smoothly as possible. Another Haj, Dr Yaser al Kubaisi said that there was no shortage of care facilities. The same opinion echoed by Mr Umar al Qahtani who stated that Hajj this year was extraordinarily organised and he personally found no problems either in accommodation, food services, transportation or during performing the rites.
 













