addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (Awqaf) is taking part in Gitex 2014 where it will show its latest applications on smart phones and tablets.
It will make public its latest services and smart applications, which translate Awqaf's strategy and vision that aims to promote social awareness and progress in light of the tolerant teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges.
Through direct interaction with visitors, Awqaf seeks to raise public awareness about its services and increase their usage.
In a statement, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, said that Awqaf is continuously developing its electronic systems and services to keep up with the latest initiatives of the UAE eGovernment. He added that the ultimate aim is to achieve the UAE leadership's vision of an mGovernment and bring Awqaf to a leading position in adopting the cutting-edge technologies for providing services to the public around the clock with flexibility and high level of efficiency.
He also explained that Gitex, one of the world biggest technology exhibitions, is a good opportunity for participants to exchange experiences.
Awqaf will also announce the holy Quran service via its official smart application and website. In a later stage, related services like Tajweed, interpretation and audio files will be developed and made available on smart platform.
Live chat, a new channel of communication, will be launched via Awqaf's contact centre, allowing users to post their questions concerning electronic services or present their suggestions or complaints, among others. This service will be available on website in Arabic and English.
Also, Awqaf launched for the first time its electronic newsletter, which contains varied content, aiming at creating an effective communication with the community.
On another note, Awqaf has completed the development of its new website and was made accessible. It comes in a new appearance, offering easy browsing and speed to reach the required information and service. It has also enhanced interactive features in response to customers' feedback, which Awqaf is receiving through its various channels of communication.
To achieve higher degree of friendliness, the interface colours lend an aesthetic value for all pages whether the main or subpages. The menus have also been ordered in a way to facilitate for users access to their various sections and benefit from the available content.
Through upgrading its smart applications, and increasing its services as well as optimising them, Awqaf is better poised to meet the community's expectations in line with its strategic plan towards a comprehensive smart government.
 













