addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise be to Allah Who created and proportioned and Who destined and [then] guided. We thank Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, He chose him over other messengers and elected him as his intimate friend (Khalil), may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty, obey Him as it ought to be and do whatever that pleases Him. The Almighty says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Servants of Allah,
As every one of us knows, children are the delight of their parents' eyes when they are young and succour in older age. They carry their parents' names and raise their status. For that they are not only a source of joy and a good company, but they are also a divine blessing and essence of life on whom we pin hopes.
Allah the most Exalted says, "wealth and children are [but] adornment of the worldly life." (Al Kahf: 46). From this perspective teaching our children matters related to their religion and educating them as best as we can is a social necessity as well as an educational and religious responsibility. On this matter our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "everyone of you is a guardian, and responsible for what is in his custody... a husband is a guardian of his family and is responsible for it."
So if you are gifted with children you must raise them nicely throughout their stages of growth and development. This is because they need you always to guide them to the right direction. Here it is good to know that everyone is initially born with an intrinsic common sense and pure soul. If they find someone to guide them to faith and good path, they grow up having a happy virtuous life and being well equipped to avoid deviation. Only this way they can benefit the community. Let us look at the example of our Prophet pbuh who used to implant in children principles of faith and teach them how to revere Allah the most Beneficent.
Ibn Abbas narrated that one day he was riding behind the Prophet pbuh when he said, "O boy, I will instruct you in some matters. Be watchful of Allah (Commandments of Allah), He will preserve you. Safeguard His Rights; He will be ever with you. If you beg, beg of Him Alone; and if you need assistance, supplicate to Allah Alone for help. And remember that if all the people gather to benefit you, they will not be able to benefit you except that which Allah had foreordained (for you); and if all of them gather to do harm to you, they will not be able to afflict you with anything other than that which Allah had pre-destined against you. The pens had been lifted and the ink had dried up".
Those who have educated their children on goodness since their early age, they will cherish the result of their work when they become adults. They will benefit them during their life and after death, as our Prophet pbuh said, "indeed Allah raises the grade of a righteous servant of His in Paradise so much that the servant of Allah says, 'O My Lord, from where is all this for me?' He will say, 'By your son seeking forgiveness for you'."
Dear Muslims,
Yet if children fail to receive proper care, attention or advice, they risk carried away by whims. It is possible that they may fall in the trap of immoderate thoughts and extremism. They may also learn religion from suspicious sources which are fed with poisonous ideas and wrong judgments. No wonder then that neglected youth receive loads of foreign stern ideas and be deceived in the name of religion.
Knowing that, you are asked to be dutiful to Allah by taking care of your sons and daughters. This is a responsibility that you will be held accountable for before Allah the most Exalted. One of the matters that parents and educators should pay attention to is educating children based on the tolerant teachings of Islam. Indeed moderation is essential if society seeks to achieve progress and prosperity.
That the youth are the men and women of tomorrow on whom the nation depends in maintaining its civilisation and position you are urged to teach them the love for their homeland and nurture in them the passion for preserving its gains. You can do this by explaining to them how our parents and grandparents had laid down the foundation of the success we witness today. You can also encourage them to continue this process through their efforts and their commitment to rallying around their wise leadership and following their footsteps. They should be aware that this is an order from their Lord Who says, "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59)."
If we succeed in instilling in them such noble values, surely we will enjoy a secure, stable and prosperous community. In it our children will pray for those who contributed to their good education as the Almighty says, "My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small." (Al Israa: 24). Likewise, they will praise and pray for their prudent leaders who are behind their success and development at all levels. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "whoever does you a favour, then reciprocate, and if you cannot, then supplicate for him until you think that you have repaid him."
Let us reiterate further the fact that one of the bases of parenting is nurturing the unconditional love for and loyalty to one's nation. This is because we live on its land, enjoy its goods and learn in its schools. Also we need to do this because our religion has instructed us to treat anyone who did a favour to us nicely. Allah says, "is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Arrahman: 60). This verse is a call for us to serve our country diligently and be grateful to it in return for all the good things it has offered us.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that one of the fruits of good education is the success of our boys and daughters and their obedience to their Lord. This way they can gain the highest positions in this life and the next, where they will enjoy the shade of the throne of the Beneficent. The Prophet pbuh said, "seven people will be shaded by Allah under His shade on the day when there will be no shade except His ...." Among whom, he mentioned:  "a youth who grows up worshipping Allah."
In this world, they shall enjoy Allah's protection as they are mindful of His orders, hence receiving the respect of the whole community.
With this in mind, we supplicated to Allah to bless our youth and help them to serve their nation. May Allah also protect our leaders and rulers.
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
You are asked to obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the best thing parents can give to their children is good education and protection. The Exalted is He says, "O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones." (Attahrim: 6). That is, teaching and educating them as mentioned by Ali ibn Abu Talib, may Allah be pleased with him, in his interpretation of this verse.
One should not ignore, however, that there are those who lay in wait, trying to tempt our children to disobey their rulers. They seek to lure them to travel to strife zones in search for 'martyrdom'. We hereby advise parents to guide their children and show them that this is a wrong understanding of reality. Let us be cautious of enemies. They are not trustworthy and they cannot be. Praise be to Allah the UAE is preserved by Him and the keen interest of its leadership. But if the enemy is a member of the community, this is truly evil and a great scourge.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs:
Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
We pray to Allah, the most Exalted to preserve our boys and girls from all temptations, both apparent and hidden; may Allah protect them from the devils of mankind and the devils of the Jinns.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













