addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















In a large ceremony held at the Emirates Heritage Club theatre in Abu Dhabi, Awqaf commemorated the Hijra anniversary marking the new Hijri year. It was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's chairman, Awqaf executive and branch directors, officials from the Department of Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities of Dubai (IACAD), a delegation from Al Azhar, a number of Christian clergy based in UAE as well as a host of people from all walks of life.
After the national anthem, the ceremony started with a recitation from the Holy Quran. Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he extended his sincere greetings on the occasion of the new Hijri year to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him and confer on him continued good health, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
He also expressed his congratulations to all of UAE people, the Muslim and Arab people as well as to the whole world.
The Prophetic Hijra is a blessed event. It gave to all mankind the finest example of human coexistence based on moral values and regulations that benefited communities living side by side cohesively and treating each other in compassion and respect, he said.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi also said,"Allah's messengers and prophets had led great progress and brought change to human lives not only because of their personal qualities of honesty, integrity, good insight and justice, but also of the systems of values and intellect they introduced. These are applicable assets that effect changes ensuring for people more happiness and dignity. They are also essential to set an environment that is conducive to populating the land and establishing a brighter civilisation cherished by man. Prophets and messengers were not in need of using slogans to fool people because the beliefs, values and ideas they advocated were compelling and admired for their own sake.
"Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh received the recognition of great leaders and men of this world. They all asserted that he was the highest achiever and his accomplishments were by all standards prodigious. This is indeed a statement of truth and by no means a lip service. Nor is it an exaggeration or flat praise. [It was an unparalleled success] for someone who was born and raised in a 'dry and uncultivated valley' to change the lives of the [then] illiterate Bedouins and Arabs and make of them knowledgeable men and women, leaders and builders of a civilisation. He did all this while remaining open to all what is beautiful, refined and compassionate."
Dr al Kaabi also highlighted the fact that the Prophetic Hijra to Medina has benefitted humanity by bringing great changes to about a billion and a half Muslims as well as to the whole world thanks to the driving forces contained in the Quran as it promotes faith, universal peace and human progress. This includes sciences and arts being the basis of a civilisation that has brought mankind out of darkness into the light and fulfilled its promises.
"The major aspects and changes of the Prophetic emigration were a Quran that laid the basis of a law of tolerance, a trustworthy prophet, who was keen on enacting and respecting rules, as well as promoting a community that favours cooperation, altruism, a sense of citizenship, forbearance and respect. At the centre of this process is the mosque, which has been the point of interaction and the beacon of knowledge and education for generations. It has also been the precursor that directs members of the community towards building and producing.
"With these qualities Islam has attracted bright-minded people and set the ideal environment for producing knowledge. But most importantly, it has become an oasis of peace and harmony and these indeed are the major changes, amongst many. These positive transformations still inspire us today. They have been believed by people because they are free from extremism or immoderation. And because of their leniency, people have embraced those ideas and become part of their lives."
Dr al Kaabi continued on saying, "our celebration today of this historic event highlights such values and goals. We aim at promoting them further amongst contemporary societies and generations, who need them urgently. This is also in order to support tolerance and social coexistence between all constituents of society and condemn all forms of extremism and terrorism. Indeed this is the approach established by the Founder of this nation: Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He was known for his great interest in our bright history and civilisation."
On another note, Dr al Kaabi hailed The Grand Imam of Al-Azhar's attitudes towards consolidating social and human principles, moderate thoughts and rejection of extremism and militancy.
From IACAD, Dr Umar al Khateeb spoke of Hijra's meanings and lauded on this occasion the cooperation between various federal and local government entities under the leadership of the UAE wise leadership. He also supplicated to Allah the Almighty to preserve UAE so as to remain a continuous oasis of peace, generosity and prosperity.
For their part, scholars from Al Azhar shed light on Hijra, the role of Muhajireen and Ansar and the importance of this event as it marked a watershed in the history of Islamic civilisation. They also extended the greetings of Grand Imam of Al Azhar, Dr Ahmed al Tayeb, to the UAE judicious leadership and people.
 













