addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise be to Allah, the Exalted, the Bestower, Who conferred on this nation fine young people. We also thank Him for His boundless blessings and generosity. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates and that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He was sent with the right Message. He is the intercessor to his Ummah on the Day of Judgment, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and do good in light of what He says, "and take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al Baqara: 197). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
As you know the youth are the foundation of society, and the men and women of tomorrow. In the following verse, Allah the Almighty spoke highly of some young people who had praised Him. He said, "indeed, they were youths who believed in their Lord, and We increased them in guidance." (Al Kahf: 13). In another verse, He mentions that He gave His Prophet Yahiya (John) wisdom, knowledge and the passion for doing good since his young age. Allah says, "O John, take the Scripture with determination." And We gave him judgment [while yet] a boy." (Mariyam: 12).
Early generations of Muslims set good examples of the status of the young. For example, Umar Ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, would let Ibn Abbas, a young person then- in many circumstances- take the lead instead of other seasoned Companions. He would ask his opinion too. For his part, Hudhayfa, may Allah be pleased with him, used to say, "good is only in youth," in reference to the special attributes Allah has blessed them with.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Let us then preserve our youth. This is a noble mission and a pressing task, especially at this time of modern communication technology, one contributing to the fast and wide dissemination of misinformation and affecting badly the way our young think and believe. Through these mediums, it is likely that they can be fooled by those with ill intents, causing them damage at many levels, including their faith, society and countries.
They achieve this by manipulating them or letting them believe that doing this is for the sake of freedom and victory of Islam. Yet, all of these are nothing but fallacies and misleading arguments. So knowing this should prompt us to seek avenues that protect our young people from such alien thoughts and one of the solutions is prevention.
Dear Muslims,
From this perspective, an effective way to save our youth is to raise them on high morality based on true faith, noble social and national ideals. This shall empower their strong sense of faith in their religion and nationhood, loyalty to their leadership and belief in the social bonds and cohesion. Moreover, they will stay immune as were Allah's Messengers and Prophets, who were keen to purify souls, raise people's awareness and spread knowledge. The Exalted is He says, "just as We have sent among you a messenger from yourselves reciting to you Our verses and purifying you and teaching you the Book and wisdom and teaching you that which you did not know." (Al Baqar: 151).
Dear Youth,
Please consider this and be eager to improve yourselves as well as preserve your authentic Islamic identity without exaggeration or negligence. In your pursuit, please seek moderation and correct understanding.
You are, therefore, kindly advised to verify what benefits you and shun rumours. Do not be fooled by these or any other information posted on the Internet and social media websites, especially if they are related to Fatwa and matters of religion. Please know that not everything that is published is true. Please stay also careful of the multimedia materials which tend to harm you and manipulate your feelings and beware of those who employ flowery slogans to deceive you. Indeed not everyone who claims the cause of defending Islam is genuine.
Furthermore, please avoid thoughts and trends that threaten the very foundations of such values as leniency, tolerance and moderation.  In your endeavour be wise and do not trust someone whom you do not know. Nor is it appropriate to believe in everyone because there is always someone good and someone bad, someone sincere and someone false. In this regard Allah says, "not equal are the blind and the seeing, nor are the darknesses and the light, nor are the shade and the heat." (Fatir: 19-21).
Dear Servants of Allah,
To help protect our youth, we need to implant in them the importance of handling time by educating them on how to best profit from it. Everyone should be aware that idleness coupled with lack of good actions is a poisonous formula that can hurt and mislead anyone. That is why your days are your living times, so do not waste them. Fill them with what can benefit you in your matters of your worldly life or religion. You can cater for the needs of your family, visit your relatives, and develop your skills through cultural, sport, social activities as well as through volunteering work, amongst many. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "the most beloved of people according to Allah is he who brings most benefit to people."
Reading Quran and understanding its meanings is one of the many beneficial acts to help you. The Almighty says, "indeed, this Quran guides to that which is most suitable and gives good tidings to the believers who do righteous deeds that they will have a great reward." (Israa: 9). In another verse, Allah ordered his Prophet Muhammad pbuh to worship Him after completing his daily errands and tasks: "so when you have finished [your duties], then stand up [for worship]." (As-Sharh: 7). That is, when you are done with your daily routine duties, you have to seek your Lord's obedience and worship Him.
Dear Muslims,
As peers and friends have influence on each other, let us then protect the young by advising them to choose the good company. On this matter our Prophet pbuh said, "a man follows the religion of his friend; so each one should consider whom he makes his friend." Our youth need therefore to find righteous friends. As parents and families we should treat our young ones nicely, surround them with positive emotions and give them all the attention they need. Failing to do this might result in them being closer to their friends than own families. They might also adopt values and attitudes they learn through their interaction with friends than those of their own parents.
For these reasons and others, please be close to your children and raise them with utmost care, guide them to the good company and pray for them. The Prophet pbuh said, "three supplications are answered, there being no doubt about them; that of a father, that of a traveler and that of one who has been wronged."
Dear Servants of Allah,
We need also to promote amongst them a sense of awareness, alertness, responsibility and positive attitude, which helps them in choosing the best ideas, verifying information and espousing a vision and wisdom.
Having this in mind, we pray to Allah, the most Exalted, to preserve our boys and girls and make them always a source of happiness and pride to their families, society and nation. O Allah, help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders:  "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that taking care of the youth is a shared responsibility. It requires joint efforts of individuals, families and institutions, be they religious, educational, media or societal. Allah says, "O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones." (Attahrim: 6). This is a call for all of us to be up to the situation and educate our youth according to the authentic religious principles of Islam. These are constructive values that correct flaws, prevent vice, and envision the youth with the true Islamic concepts. They also bring them closer to their Lord and motivate them to protect their nation, extend their loyalty to their leaders and be kind to their families and societies as well as maintain their gains.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Having this in mind, may Allah protect our youth from any harm, guide them to the right path, enlighten their perception and help them succeed in all that pleases Him. May Allah strengthen their will to seek ways of wisdom, do good, and succeed in beneficial undertakings. May Allah also guide them to adopt moderation, avoid stern attitude, extremism and disobedience and protect them from any temptation or ill outcomes.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













