addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise be to Allah, Who has blessed us with one of the best countries. In it, He grants us peace and stability. He has also endeared Iman (faith) to us and has beautified it in our hearts. For His unlimited virtues and generosity, we extol Him as is befitting to His glorious sovereignty and status, and bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers.
We also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "and indeed this, your religion, is one religion, and I am your Lord, so fear Me." (Al Muaminun: 52). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Love for and devotion to homeland is part of us as humans and is a divine gift to us. Naturally, we feel attracted to the place where we have grown up and have benefitted from its provisions. For us, it is the protection, the first school, a cradle of first memories and the childhood realm. No wonder then that we feel proud when our country is praised.
Our example and Prophet Muhammad pbuh used to love his homeland. It was reported that when Khadija, may Allah be pleased with her, came with him to see Waraqa Ibn Nawfal, she told him, "listen to the story of your nephew, O my cousin." Waraqa said, "O my nephew, what have you seen?" Allah's Messenger pbuh described whatever he had seen. Waraqa said, "this is the same one who keeps the secrets (angel Jibreel-Gabriel) whom Allah had sent to Moses." The Prophet pbuh remained silent." Then Waraqa said, "I wish I were young and strong when you would be asked to spread the Message of Allah." Waraqa continued saying, "I wish I were young and could live up to the time when your people would turn you out." Allah's Messenger felt a sense of longing and asked: "will they drive me out?"
Some interpreters suggested that this Hadith illustrates the severity of leaving one's native land as seen in the Prophet's response. First he did not show much reaction to what Warqa said about him facing harm and denial. But when he was told that he might be driven away, the Prophet pbuh turned to be worried; such a change of feeling showed to what extent he loved his homeland and was attached to it.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Let us look also at the example of Ibrahim pbuh when he settled with his family in Mecca. He pbuh supplicated to Allah to grant them means of stability and peace as indicated in the Quran: "my Lord, make this city [Makkah] secure." (Ibrahim: 35). He pbuh also prayed to the Almighty to make people friendly and sympathise with them saying, "so make hearts among the people incline toward them." (Ibrahim: 37). In the same verse, he asked Allah to grant them bountiful provision: "and provide for them from the fruits that they might be grateful."
By now we should have understood that the love for one's nation is essential and without it one cannot give or build a [civilisation]. That is why when the Prophet pbuh moved to Medina, he asked his Lord to make his Companions love it as much as they love Mecca or even more. He pbuh said, "O Allah, make us love Medina as much as we love Mecca or even more."
He pbuh also said, "O Allah, bless us in our fruits. Bless us in our city. Bless us in our Saa (a measure) and bless us in our mudd (measure). O Allah, Ibrahim is Your servant, Your Khalil (close friend) and Your Prophet. I am Your servant and Your Prophet. He prayed to You for Mecca. I pray to You for Medina for the like of what He prayed to You for Mecca , and the like of it with it."
Our Prophet pbuh considered people's positive feelings towards their homelands and he mentioned its soil in one of the cure prayers: Ruqiya. He would say, the meaning of which: "the dust of our ground with the saliva of any one of us would serve as a means whereby our illness would be cured with the sanction of Allah."
As such, we are so devoted to our country that its air becomes food, its water and soil is cure. It is thus admired because in it there are mosques; on it worshippers prostrate and pray to Allah. It is a place where people feel secure about their lives, and have their dignity safeguarded under their wise leaders while their religion and honour remain intact.
Dear Muslims,
The sense of belonging to the nation should be materialised through acts and achievements, including spreading harmony and cohesion amongst individuals. The aim is to strengthen the cement of the community and brings its members to live closer and in kindness. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "the similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever."
To fulfil our obligations towards our nation and protect its rights requires ignoring those who hold destructive and distorting thoughts, the like of people who are described in the Quran as causing corruption in the land and do not amend. They denied all the good things offered to them and took the evil way instead. The Exalted is He says, "then is one who walks fallen on his face better guided or one who walks erect on a straight path?" (Al Mulk: 22).
In the same regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever parts from obedience, and splits away from the Jamaah (the main body of the Muslims) and dies, then he has died a death of Jahiliyyah (belonging to the days of the pre-Islamic era). Whoever rebels against my Ummah, killing good and evil people alike, and does not try to avoid killing the believers, and does not pay attention to those who are under a covenant, then he is not of me. Whoever fights for a cause that is not clear, advocating tribalism, getting angry for the sake of tribalism, and he is killed, then he has died a death of Jahiliyyah."
Dear Servants of Allah,
It is also our responsibility to protect the nation by strengthening its standing. So strive, O young people, in defending your country as it calls upon you to serve it. It is an opportunity for you to express your loyalty, affiliation and your willingness to defend it. It is also an opportunity for you to grow stronger and stronger and be able enough to address challenges and overcome obstacles. Please remember that Allah the most Exalted will lodge those who fall in defence of their homeland in the highest ranks in Paradise.
We also have to preserve its achievements and gains and lead it to the forefront position in all fields. For anyone, who took the initiative of working hard to raise his country's status high in every arena, he has truly fulfilled his obligations.
And one of the most prominent obligations is to extend our sincere gratitude to those who built this nation. We must also line up behind our wise leadership and work according to their judicious directives. This way we give value to our sense of belonging and loyalty to our homeland. We also give merit to the role of authenticity in building civilisations. In so doing, we should embrace knowledge and reason and espouse the guidance of our religion.
Please remember that this country was founded by people who had been true to their covenant with Allah. In return, the Almighty fulfilled to them His promises, honoured them after hard time and blessed them in abundance after misery. They endured difficulties until Allah the most Beneficent bestowed upon them generous provision. Yet neither did they transgress the borders of Allah, nor behave in excess. Rather they engaged in populating the land and they succeeded in that, as they turned this country to a green oasis.
Having this in mind, we plead with Allah to forgive the dead of them, honour the living of them, and give success to their progeny and the people loyal to them.
May Allah help us to fulfil our duties towards our nation, bless our leaders and help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that He ordered us to stay united as mentioned in this verse: "and hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided. " (Al Imran: 103). A symbol of unity is the national flag, which marks a continuing legacy. Also it is a source of pride and respect as it flies high showing the strength of the country and its status.
On the National Flag Day, the UAE Flag rose high above in the sky in a solemn scene that expresses the sincere affiliation to this great land and loyalty to its prudent leaders.  Citizens across UAE answered the call and raised the flag, sending to the whole world a message of their true sense of belonging to this nation and strong cohesion and unity under the banner of the wise leadership. It was truly a magnificent scene that demonstrated how this country had united to become a leading state at various levels, including cultural, social and scientific, amongst others. It is a nation that gathers its people under one flag and led by judicious leaders. Indeed love for the nation reflects faith and affiliation to it is one of the highest values.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah help us to safeguard the acquisitions of our nation.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













