addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise and thank be to Allah, the Exalted, the Sovereign, the Perfect. He gives without measure. We thank Him in every situation and for every favour to us.
We bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Him alone without any partners or peers and that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his Companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty in light of what He says, "and fear Allah and know that you will meet Him. And give good tidings to the believers." (Al Baqara: 223). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
One of the Divine gifts to us is money, which is a necessity of life to achieve interests and bring happiness if it is used in the most correct way. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "sound property is very excellent for a sound man." He would also pray saying, "O Allah, set right for me my religion which is the safeguard of my affairs. And set right for me the affairs of my world wherein is my living. And set right for me my Hereafter on which depends my after-life"
Money is also a means to serve people and do good, as Al Zubair Ibn Al Awwam, may Allah be pleased with him said, "it helps you give, honour ties of kinship, spend in the way of Allah and maintain good manners."
Therefore, Islam has considered protecting property an important goal and necessity, because of the so many interests it brings about and so many evil it can ward off. The Prophet pbuh said in Hajjat Al Wadaa (the Farewell Pilgrimage), "your blood and your wealth are as sacred to you as this day of yours in this month of yours, in this town of yours."
In another Hadith he said, "everything of a Muslim is sacred to a Muslim: his property, honour and blood."
Dear Servants of Allah,
The Exalted is He forbids us to encroach on private or public property. He says, "O you who have believed, do not consume one another's wealth unjustly." (Annisaa: 29). Private property is funds, money or assets owned by one person or a group of individuals. They enjoy sanctity and must not be taken wrongly, as evidenced in the following Hadith: 'if anyone takes a span of land unjustly, his neck will be encircled with it down seven earths on the Day of Resurrection." He pbuh also prohibited undertaking even a lesser act, when he pbuh said, "a man shall not take a stick of his brother without his permission, " an indication of his keen interest in protecting Muslims' property.
Because of the inviolable nature of people's property, Islam forbids all pretexts that may lead to underestimate it. Thus it interdicts fraud in transactions as clearly shown in this Hadith: "he who acted dishonestly towards us is not of us."
Likewise, Islam disallows cheating in measurements as the Almighty says, "Woe to those who give less [than due], who, when they take a measure from people, take in full. But if they give by measure or by weight to them, they cause loss," (Al Mutafifeen: 1-3) or giving and taking bribes. In Islam, bribery is utterly prohibited and described in the worst of terms. On the narration of Abdullah bin Amr that Allah's Messenger cursed the one who bribes and the one who takes bribes.
Moreover, Islam proscribes illegal profits, which may cause damage to people. This includes theft, gambling, amongst others. In this regard, the Almighty says, "O you who have believed, indeed, intoxicants, gambling, [sacrificing on] stone alters [to other than Allah], and divining arrows are but defilement from the work of Satan, so avoid it that you may be successful." (Al Maeda: 90).
Dear Muslims,
Islam also interdicts violating the sanctity of public property, which consists of all the assets that serve the whole community, including such services and amenities like mosques, schools, parks and roads that are vital to the society. On a larger scale, they also include the nations' institutions and acquisitions. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "this worldly wealth is (like) sweet (fruit), and if a person earns it (the wealth) in a legal way and spends it properly, then it is an excellent helper, and whoever earns it in an illegal way, he will be like the one who eats but is never satisfied."
As such, maintaining public wealth is not one man's responsibility, rather it is a collective enterprise. This is because its misuse will cause large scope damage, affecting the community as a whole.
Dear Muslims,
Safeguarding public property has many aspects; one good example is the devotion of employees to undertake their responsibilities to the fullest. They should always be aware that they are entrusted with public money as required by their occupational role and job. So they have to use it rationally without negligence or resorting to tricks. Public property is also a trust and must be geared toward fulfilling the purposes for which it is intended. Allah, the most Exalted says, "indeed, Allah commands you to render trusts to whom they are due." (Annisaa: 58). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "pay the deposit to him who deposited it with you, and do not betray him who betrays you."
He pbuh also warned against exploiting public facilities and positions for personal gains. It was reported that he pbuh appointed a man to collect Zakah. When he returned he said, "this is for you and this was given to me as present." So the Prophet pbuh stood on the pulpit, and after praising and extolling Allah he said, "what is the matter with a collector of Zakah. We send him (to collect Zakah), and when he return he says, 'this is for you and this is a present which was given to me'  why did he not sit in his father's or mother's house and see whether it would be given to him or not ?"
Knowing this, may Allah help us to preserve the blessing of wealth, direct us to honour Your sanctities and fulfil the rights of Your servants. May Allah also help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that money is one of the things that the individuals will be held accountable for on the Day of Judgment. In such a solemn scene, he will be recompensed according to what he did of good or evil.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "the feet of the slave of Allah shall not move [on the Day of Judgement] until he is asked about five things: about his life and what he did with it, about his knowledge and what he did with it, about his wealth and how he earned it and where he spent it on, about his body and for what did he wear it out."
This is a call for considering our Lord in all of our acts, being committed to honesty and piety in all of our affairs and setting the best example in protecting private and public property. Allah says, "so by your Lord, we will surely question them all about what they used to do." (Al Hijr: 92-93).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah set right for us our religion, which is the safeguard of our affairs. And set right for us the affairs of the world wherein is our living. May Allah also set right for us our Hereafter on which depends our after-life. May Allah help us to fulfil covenants, preserve the sanctity of private and public property and safeguard the gains of our community and nation, O the most compassionate, the most Beneficent.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













