addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In response to the "National Day" initiative of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah protect him, Awqaf raised the National Flag at its Headquarters in Abu Dhabi and its branches across UAE. The National Day is celebrated on November 3rd each year to mark the anniversary of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan's accession as President of UAE.
The celebration of the National Flag Day was also an opportunity to express the most sincere love for and affiliation to this nation and its Flag, being a symbol of our will and strong detemination to unite. It is thus an epitome of our Union, vision, future, convergence of our energies and potentials to ensure a sustainable future for the country.
In a speech, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, extended his sincere congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah grant him success and continued good health, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, their brothers Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates and Members of the Supreme Council and HH the General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Dr al Kaabi also congratulated the UAE people, praying to Allah to bring back this occasion with our country enjoying continuing prosperity, progress, safety and security under the guidance of our judicious leadership.
"Awqaf celebrates this valuable national occasion with a firm belief this will strengthen a sense of belonging to the nation and the national pride. It will also highlight the special position the national flag has in every citizen and resident living in this giving land," he said. He also praised the motto for this year's celebration: "Raise it up high to keep it high".
The Flag Day is the beginning of a series of festivities leading up to the 43th National Day to be celebrated on December 2nd.
Dr al Kaabi added that celebrating this day and similar ones reflects the keen interest of the UAE leadership in increasing the awareness of Emiratis across generations to realise the value of their national symbols and adhere to their history and heritage as well to the achievements of the founding fathers.
Dr al Kaabi reminded the audience of the importance of celebrating this dear occasion, "through which we renew our allegiance to our beloved country and leaders, and recall the founding fathers who raised the flag for the first time 43 years ago" said he. He added that this is also a time to remember the work and sacrifices, which have kept the flag towering high for four decades, and a good reason to praise our achievements and gains, which put [our country] amongst the advanced nations and peoples.
 













