addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, explained that the Muslim world had been in crisis since the late nineteenth century, not excluding the current events that are taking toll on many countries and creating hotbeds for terrorism and terrorists. The latter take from Islam names and designations that have nothing to do with it. Even worse there have emerged a wave of bickering between leaders of secular and Islamic groups alike, he said, adding that this type of people are not after the ultimate interests of their nations since they are using Islam and nationalism as a cover for purposes other than serving their homelands.
Dr al Kaabi further explained: "those extremists, who appointed themselves protectors of Islam and guardians of the faith, have no right to commit terrorist crimes in the name of religion. And because of their ignorance and foolish attitude, they destroyed one of the religion's principles. The legality and legitimacy of Jihad in Islamic Fiqh rests with the Ruler based on full consideration of the situation and at a specific time. Matters related to peace and wars are part of his powers and prerogatives. By no means can they be in the hands of anyone else. Nor can any groups or parties take this role. This is in order to avoid anarchy, social chaos and civil wars, as well as internal and external strife as is the case now."
He also mentioned that Islam is founded on a system of values and codes of morality aiming at making Muslims a good example of mercy, compassion, benevolence, and cooperation to build a happy life. In this regard, he said that if Islam forbids such mere acts of gossiping or calling each other by nicknames or using offensive language, then there is no wonder that it forbids anything that may call for or lead to intimidation even if it were just for fun.
Takfir and bloodshedding
On another note, Dr al Kaabi emphasised that one of the most dangerous acts promoted by terrorists is declaring other people as non-Muslims or apostates. This, he said, would cause bloodletting and transgression of others' property and integrity. As such and given the critical nature of this issue, Islam does not lend it to private individuals' own Ijtihad (diligence). Nor does it allow disbelieving someone, except if his or her infidelity and disbelief is clearly evidenced in the Quran and Sunna. Suspicion alone is not enough as the consequences of Takfir are truly serious, concluded Dr al Kaabi.
 













