addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















In a statement, Awqaf Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, said that the publication of the list of designated terrorist organisations groups is a clear message to the whole world about the UAE's stance concerning terrorism, extremism and immoderation. The list was approved by the Cabinet and was part of the implementation of the federal law in regard to combating terrorist crimes, which was issued by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
It came also to demonstrate how UAE maintains security and justice and preserves people's integrity, he said, adding that in this pursuit it is adopting the best form of morality, moderation, promotion of noble civil values like coexistence, tolerance and solidarity.
Dr al Kaabi explained that the wise policies the UAE implements are founded on firm strategic rules of justice, forbearance, and spread of love and harmony amongst people. These principles were enacted by the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, and the late Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, may Allah rest their souls in peace, and followed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah protect him, their brothers, Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Dr al Kaabi praised the UAE society, saying it is endowed with good morality, brought up soundly and adherent to the moderate and lenient principles of Islam. He said also that its members are keen to maintain justice and security and are immune from destructive radical ideology.
Objection to extremism
"As UAE has, applies and observes all of those fine Islamic and human values and principles, it must reject all forms of extremism and militancy from terrorist groups, which are threatening peace and stability in many parts of the world, violating people's integrity and shedding blood without mercy or consideration of religion and the sanctity of human life itself," said Dr al Kaabi.
He added that Muslims are hurt by the outrageous distortions of the bright image of Islam by some sinful categories of people, who shed blood and attributed their crimes to Islam. They acquired alien ideology, which has nothing to do with religion. In so doing, they only ruin their pure human nature-the pattern on which Allah has made mankind- and kill their senses.
Dr al Kaabi emphasised that Awqaf through its various tools, including Friday Khutbas (sermons), religious lessons and seminars as well as through social media and Fatwa services is undertaking its role of educating people against the danger of extremism and immoderation. It also raises the public's awareness about the vital importance of adhering to the tolerant teachings of Islam, which call for solidarity, safety and charity amongst people, and brings their attention to the distortions of the image of Islam like killing of innocents, encroaching on others' integrity and property. Further, it warns them against misleading Fatwas from suspicious sources or those geared towards defending unjust and corrupt groups.
Strict measures
Dr al Kaabi continued saying that since fanatic ideology has reached this dark alarming level with their advocators losing sense of conscience and failing to listen to the voice of wisdom and comply with advice, then a firm action must be taken. This is required in order to preserve the religion from such an alien system of thought and protect people from the evil posed by those extremists and their gruesome criminal doings. For these reasons and others, addressing the harm caused by those terrorists is legal and legitimate demand.













