addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, Who ordered His servants to seek unity and avoid division. I extol Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status. I also thank Him for His unlimited blessings.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates and that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. The Exalted is He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (Attawbah: 19). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
As days and nights pass, generations after generations, we are blessed with abundant provisions and good living. This is the fruit of the Union, being the basis for glories, progress and harmony. Indeed the Almighty instructs us to come together around His Word as He says, "and hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided." (Al Imaran: 103).
In this verse as stated by Abdullah Ibn Masud, may Allah be pleased with him, the most Beneficent calls us to remain steadily united. The same was related by other scholars who said that the All-Glory has ordered consensus and forbidden discord and conflict. This sheds light on the fact that differences lead to destruction while unity is a way to survival.
Unity is our Lord's order to those who are true and considerate to Him. So be keen to observe it because it is one of the greatest blessings that Allah bestows upon His servants as mentioned by the Prophet Muhammad pbuh: "unity is mercy and division is torment."
Ibn Al Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said in the same regard, "early nations and [civilisations] perished only because of their divisions."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that Allah has blessed us with immense favours. After we were divided, we have become united and now our Union sets a formidable example of agreement that benefits all. The Prophet pbuh said that Allah brings support and mercy to those who remain united and avoid differences. With the blessings of consensus and harmony, nations can enjoy high status, avoid temptations and ultimately achieve progress. In the process, knowledge blossoms too.
There is no doubt that any nation, which holds strongly to the rope of Allah, shall succeed and raise its standing. That is why our Prophet pbuh stressed the role of union and warned against division. Thus he said, "so observe (prayer) in congregation), for the wolf eats only the sheep that strays off on its own."
Please be aware also that dissension leads to weakness, while agreement to strength, as our Prophet said, "adhere to the Jamaah (the community), beware of separation, for indeed Ash-Shaitan (Satan) is with one, and he is further away from two. Whoever wants the best place in Paradise then let him stick to the Jamaah."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Looking into the Quran and the circumstances in which it was sent as well as its interpretation, you can find that Allah the most Exalted does not address His servants individually. He uses statements that urge them to stick together, hence supplicating to him this way increases chances of their prayers to be accepted and them be engaged cooperatively.
In many places in the Quran, the Almighty says, "O Children of Adam!"; "O mankind!"; "O you who have believed," to stress the importance of union. At the same time He warns us of conflict and discord saying, "and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage and [then] your strength would depart." (Al Anfal: 46).
Without unity societies cannot flourish, nor can civilisations emerge or survive. No wonder then that the first step undertaken by our Prophet pbuh was to bring Muslims closer. As they did, they supported each other and gained strength. Their life transformed from conflict to harmony. Their concerns over sources of water and pasture or the ill-partisanship gave way to more fulfilling interests to build a human civilisation based on unity, knowledge, tolerance, compassion and solidarity.
Allah the most Exalted removed the rancour that used to weigh on their souls and replaced it with mercy and peace of mind. Allah the Almighty says, "it is He who supported you with His help and with the believers and brought together their hearts. If you had spent all that is in the earth, you could not have brought their hearts together; but Allah brought them together. Indeed, He is Exalted in Might and Wise." (Al Anfal: 62-63).
Dear Muslims,
In light of these Quranic principles and Prophetic guidance, the first solid edifice of Union in the Arab region was established forty three years ago. Since then and year on year, the unification of the Emirates has proved it is efficient thanks to the dedication of its leadership and the adherence to it by its people. As we are commemorating its anniversary, we enjoy the blessings of safety and welfare for which we are grateful to Allah, Who grants us such leaders who draw the wisdom from the holy Quran and Sunna.
They deliver their promises to people and lay firm foundation for the country. Accordingly the nation sees its status rising higher and faith filling every corner. Further, people admire their leadership in the same way as the leadership admire them. The UAE people have also emerged as one of the happiest peoples worldwide. And on this generous land great provisions are made abundant. Our Prophet pbuh said, "the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke God's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them."
So after the Founding Fathers came a new generation of leaders to follow their footprints and build on their successes. Thanks to their unremitting efforts, the UAE turns into a green oasis that attracts people from all around the world.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Every year as we are celebrating the anniversary of the Union, generations should draw valuable lessons, mostly the importance of loving one's homeland, staying affiliated to it and being loyal to the wise leadership. They should also preserve the nations' gains. This is in order to ensure continuing progress for the nation while firmly holding to the rope of Allah all together and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
Bearing this in mind, we implore Allah to bless UAE, protect our leaders and maintain our unity. We also plead with Him to help us obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the Union is a great blessing for which we must be grateful. One way to maintain it and make it thrive is to avoid temptations, which drive away good and bring in curses. We need also to adhere to the spirit of the Union and cooperate in righteousness and piety in order to please Allah and receive His support and love.
Moreover, we need to seek modern means and participate effectively in building the nation, preserving its achievements and glories, and acknowledging the role of those who establish the Union and continue its process. On this occasion we pray to Allah to reward them greatly. The All-Glory says, "indeed, We will not allow to be lost the reward of the reformers." (Al Araf: 170).
We are also required to rally around our judicious leaders, who spare no effort in ensuring prosperity and happiness for this nation, may Allah protect them and grant them success.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, help us to adhere to our unity, preserve our achievements and work in synergy with our leadership. O Lord of the Worlds, help us also to thank You duly for Your wholesome bounties to us.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













