addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is to Allah, the Bestower of favours and blessings. He granted His servants unlimited favours and taught them eloquence.  I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers. He honoured Arabic as He made it the language of the Quran. I also testify that Muhammad-the best who spoke Arabic- is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "and We have certainly presented for the people in this Qur'an from every [kind of] example - that they might remember. [It is] an Arabic Qur'an, without any deviance that they might become righteous." (Azzumar: 27-28). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Societies rise in status through intellect and every nation is proud of its language. This is because the language is the best way to understand the identity of communities and realize their characteristics and features. For this reason messengers and prophets were sent speaking in the language of their people as illustrated in the following verse: "and We did not send any messenger except [speaking] in the language of his people to state clearly for them." (Ibrahim: 4). Our language is Arabic and is therefore the mainstay of our identity. It is a tool that has recorded our thoughts and safeguarded our civilisation since long time ago.
Arabic is a medium for facilitating understanding and is a vehicle for spreading knowledge. It is also a link between our precious past, our bright present and our promising future. The All-Glory has made it the language of the seal of divine messages thanks to its intrinsic rhetoric, as He says, "and this Quran is [in] a clear Arabic language." (Annahl: 103).
It is the most eloquent, venerable and noble of all languages. It is also the best in conveying broad intangible meanings, another reason why the holy Quran was sent in Arabic. It promises the faithful with the loveliest phrases, while it addresses the wrongdoers with the most warning statements. The Exalted is He says, "and this is a confirming Book in an Arabic tongue to warn those who have wronged and as good tidings to the doers of good." (Al Ahqaf: 12).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Indeed our Lord has raised the status of Arabic, giving it the highest honour as He says, "and thus We have sent it down as an Arabic Quran and have diversified therein the warnings that perhaps they will avoid [sin] or it would cause them remembrance." (Taha: 113).
Here as elsewhere, remembrance came to mean high honour and dignity. Allah the most Exalted says, "and indeed, it is a remembrance for you and your people, and you [all] are going to be questioned." (Azzukhruf: 44). Arabic is also a feed for those who seek wisdom and eloquence as is mentioned in this verse: "the Most Merciful taught the Quran, created man, [and] taught him eloquence." (Arrahman: 1-4).
Further, Arabic is the language for performing prayers and reading Quran. Allah says, "and indeed, the Quran is the revelation of the Lord of the worlds. The Trustworthy Spirit has brought it down upon your heart, [O Muhammad] - that you may be of the warners - in a clear Arabic language." (As-Shuaraa: 192-195(.
It is prescribed in Islam that the holy Quran should be read in Arabic without mistakes to avoid altering its structure and meaning. That is why the Companions, may Allah be pleased with them, were interested in Arabic as much as they were in Quran and Sunna. Also they used to teach it to their children.
Abu Bakr used to say, "to read a verse of the Quran in the most correct way is dearer to me than memorising it." For his part, Umar Ibn Al Khattab said, "you have to deepen your knowledge in religion and master Arabic, the best of it."
Dear Muslims,
To avoid the risk of losing the ability of understanding the holy Quran, it is our duty to love Arabic, be proficient in it and not replacing it. A scholar said in this regard,"nothing has caused people to be ignorant or divided-i.e, in terms of understanding meanings- except because of them replacing Arabic."
Umar Ibn Al Khattab was aware of the importance of excelling in Arabic so he wrote to Abu Musa Al As-Shaari, may Allah be pleased with him, advising him: "expand your knowledge in Sunna, excel in Arabic, and recite Quran perfectly for it is Arabic."
Given its importance as we have seen, learning Arabic at a younger age is a shared responsibility between the family and the school. Parents have a great role in highlighting the importance of Arabic by speaking it at home. Teachers have a similar obligation in showing Arabic in the best of form by motivating and making students love it. Thus, everyone should know that it is part and parcel of our religious and national identity.
That is said, you are urged to learn it and teach it to your children. Yet immersion in Arabic does not mean ignoring learning foreign languages. In fact Sunna calls on us to study other languages, which help us communicate with others and benefit from their knowledge. In so doing we should not neglect our mother tongue, though.
There are many ways to master Arabic, among which reading Arabic books, reading and listening to poetry, looking into Arab history and attending literary and cultural forums. This is order to create an environment where our children feel that they belong to the realm of Arabic and to their nation. So let Arabic be the seeds of the future of your sons and daughters, for, indeed, it is the house of the nation's civilisation and protector. It is also a symbol of its identity and a stock of its heritage and culture.
With this in mind we implore our Lord to help us preserve the language of the Quran and that of His Prophet Muhammad pbuh. May Allah help us also obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the Arabic language receives a great support from our wise leadership. This commitment was clearly expressed by H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, UAE Vice President, may Allah protect him, when he said, "our Arabic language is a living, rich, lively language. It has preserved its authenticity for more than 2,000 years, and it has the capacity of keeping up with the present and the future. Contributing to its preservation is therefore an Islamic value and a national obligation as well as an [endeavour] to consolidate our identity and historical roots."
To materialise this engagement, our wise leadership has been active through many initiatives for promoting Arabic, such as the Arabic Language Charter aiming at expanding its use in public life, the Consultative Council of Arabic Language, the International Centre for Teaching Arabic for Speakers of Other Languages, in addition to Mohammed bin Rashid Arabic Language Award.
Assuming its religious and national duty towards Arabic, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments launched for its part successive initiatives for memorising Quran through the Quranic memorisation centres across UAE. Reciting and memorising Quran is believed to be a great help in mastering Arabic-the language of the Quran- and pronouncing it accurately. The All-Glory says, "a Book whose verses have been detailed, an Arabic Quran for a people who know."(Fussilat: 3).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah make the language of the Quran beloved to us, help us to protect it and master it. May Allah enlighten our hearts and grant us the good understanding, O the most Beneficent.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader H.H. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, H.H. Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince H.H. Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













