addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the One and Only God. He covers the night with the day; the Exalted is He, the most Forgiving. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates and that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. He pbuh called on us to seize time to do good acts. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Him the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
Time is one's lifespan and amongst the greatest favours of Allah upon us. The Exalted is He associates it with action as is in this verse: "by time, indeed, mankind is in loss, except for those who have believed and done righteous deeds and advised each other to truth and advised each other to patience." (Al Asr: 1-3).  This verse is hailed to be a criterion for man to benefit from time, or as put it by a scholar: "were people contemplating the meaning of this verse that would have been enough for them." Therefore, anyone who manages his time in the best of ways, he is a winner. However, those, who spend their time idly, are losers, missing lots of opportunities. That is why our Prophet Muhammad pbuh advised us to start our day with such a prayer as: "all praise is due to Allah, Who healed me in my body, and returned to me my soul, and permitted me to remember Him."
It is necessary to begin our day with Dhikr because it is an act of obedience, which is a beneficial use of time. Our Prophet pbuh would urge his people to remember Allah's bounties on them always saying, "If anyone says in the morning, 'O Allah, whatever favour has come to me, it comes from You alone Who has no partner; to You praise is due and thanksgiving,' he will have expressed full thanksgiving for the day; and if anyone says the same in the evening, he will have expressed full thanksgiving for the night."
O Muslims let us praise our Lord for the blessings of time, life and Islam. Indeed they are the most valuable things we have and the blissful amongst us are those who spend their day thanking and remembering Allah as well as working and benefitting from their time. Those fortunate people also engage in acts of worship, praying to Allah and remembering Him as the day comes to an end. As the Hadith explains, Dhikr is equated to the plants of Paradise: "whoever says: 'glory is to Allah, the Magnificent, and with His Praise (Subḥan Allahil-Addhim, wa biḥamdih) a date-palm tree is planted for him in Paradise." Knowing this, let us not forget that time is so precious it should not be wasted and that our days are the only time we have for sowing what we can reap in the Hereafter.
Dear Servants of Allah,
As days and years pass man is in a dilemma. He fears two things: the outcome of his past and what Allah may have decided about it and the destiny of the rest of his life and what Allah might judge it. Because of the crucial importance of time, one should explore every avenue to manage it in the perfect possible manner and achieve his goals. This requires full commitment to avoiding wasting time and to finishing tasks as per schedule. The immediate reward is a feeling of comfort for being good in managing time, being punctual and respectful to others. People achieving this are the winners and will never regret the effort, because when death comes there will be no chance for the individual to seek appeasing [Allah]. 
On this matter our Prophet pbuh said, "there is no one who dies but he shall regret." They said, "what shall he regret over O Messenger of Allah?" He said, "If he was a good doer, he regrets that he did not do more, and if he was an evil doer, he regrets that he did not stop."
O Muslims, we can retain from this Hadith that the good doers when they see Paradise, they will regret that they did not increase their good deeds. Those who did little will lament their lot and wish if they did enough good work during their lifetime too. The All-Glory says, "that Day, man will remember, but what good to him will be the remembrance? He will say, "Oh, I wish I had sent ahead [some good] for my life." (Al Fajr: 23-24).
In the same regard, Hasan Al Basri, may Allah rest his soul in peace, said, "as for yesterday, it has gone. As for tomorrow, you may not live to reach it. Today is yours, so do good deeds in it."
Good use of time in the best interest of oneself and others is required. This is possible by organising daily chores and tasks and arranging priorities. Please remember that your lifetime is either evidence for you or against you. You are the one responsible about how you have spent your time, especially during youth years. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "man's feet will not move on the Day of Resurrection before he is asked about his life, how did he consume it, his knowledge, what did he do with it, his wealth, how did he earn it and how did he dispose of it, and about his body, how did he wear it out."
Dear Muslims,
Please know that founding nations and civilisations does not depend on intellectual, human or material bases only, but also on good management of time. So if you fill your time with good actions, you will reap good return. The Prophet's Companions grasped this meaning and had been committed to any beneficial work they could do. It was narrated by Umara bin Khuzayma bin Thabit that Umar Ibn Al Khattab said to his father: "what does prevent you from planting your land?" My father said, "I am an old person who might die [anytime] tomorrow." Umair said, "I ask you [strongly] to plant it." Umara added: "I saw Umar is planting the land plot together with my father."
O Believers, you should not let time goes on without good management. You also should look into what you have given to yourselves, spouses, children, job, nation and the Hereafter. For each of these, you must give the time that it deserves. Again let us stress that the true winners are those who are blessed by their Lord to worship Him. Equally, the happy ones amongst you are those who seize the months, the days, and the hours to get closer to their Creators through acts of worship.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to bless our time and help us obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Islam has ordered us to use time wisely throughout the stages of our life. This principle is stressed, for example, through Salat, being a pillar of Islam. The Exalted is He says, "indeed, prayer has been decreed upon the believers a decree of specified times." (Annisaa: 103). That is, it should be performed in known and defined times.
Speaking of time, it should be emphasised that the young adulthood is the much-admired period for giving; it is the most productive stage of life and the most beneficial. From this perspective, it is an extreme loss if we fail to invest in time for achieving good things. Yet any work has a timeframe that we should respect when dealing with people be it for business transactions, meetings or visits.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
O servants of Allah remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













