addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Strategic goal of the Preaching Department: 
Contributing to the promotion of religious awareness and Islamic culture as well as instilling values of moderation and tolerance in society.
 
Tasks and duties
Preparation and programme section

  Devising the strategic plan as per schedule.
  Organising activities during national and religious      occasions.
  Preparing development programmes for preachers and      Imams who deliver        religious lectures and lessons.
  Developing awareness activities for the comuunity.
  Devising future plans for religious work.

Follow-up and implementation section

   Supervising the implemnetation of the unified      preaching plan and submitting a regular report thereof.
   Following up the implementation of community      programmes.
   Following up the delivery of preaching lessons,      lectures and seminars in mosques and other educational and service      entities.
   Collaborating with Awqaf departments concerning      preaching activities.
   Following up preaching reports.
   Managing the preparation of workshops, sessions      and seminars on topics related to preaching and administration skills.
Managing affairs of preachers and Imams in charge of      preaching.

Preaching media section

  Supervising and managing the implementation of live      broadcast of Friday Khutba nationwide. This is done in coordination with      media companies (Abu Dhabi Media, Dubai Media Inc.).
  Collaborating with Abu Dhabi Quran Radio and following      up the programmes aired by the station. 
 Developing future media awareness plans in coordination      with the preparation and programme section.

 
Preaching approach and method 
First: Scholarly lesson 
1. Taking into consideration the audience level of education, age and Madhhab (religious school of thought).
2.  Committing to a scientific methodology in delivering lessons and curriculums as defined by the preaching department.  3. When choosing another book from outside the curriculum, it is obligatory to obtain a prior permission from the preaching department management.
4. The preacher shall choose the book from the curriculumm that is appropriate to the audience.
5. The preacher must not delve into subjects that stir disagreement and conflict, including talking about other people and entities.
6. Taking a rational and moderate approach in giving lectures and lessons.
7. The preacher must avoid engaging in general issues without approved Fatwa from the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments. 
 
Second: Preaching and sermons 
1. The preacher must adhere to the lessons in the preaching curriculums specified by the preaching department.
2. When choosing another book from outside the cuurriculum, it is obligatory to obtain a prior approval from the preaching department management.
3. The preacher must verify Hadiths and information are correct.
4. The preacher must observe behavioural and educational aspects.
5.  The preacher must take into account the audience and their various levels of education.
6. The preacher must consider national and religious occasions.
 
The scholarly requirements of preachers 
1. The preacher must memorise a significant portion of Quran and Sunna.
2. The preacher must be versed in the science of the Quran and Sunna.
3. The preacher must be versed in Islamic Fiqh (jurisprudence) and its principles.
4.  The preacher must be fluent in Arabic.
5. The preacher must know about the context of Sunna and events related to it as well as the jurisprudence of Sunna.
6. The Preacher must have an extensive knowledge about the history of Islam and Muslims.
 
The ethical requirements of preachers 
1. The preacher must be sincere in his/her work and knowledgeable of the content of sermons and lessons.
2. The preacher must act according to sermons and lessons he/she is delivering.
3. The preacher must show educational work ethics based on guidance while avoiding emotions and anger.
4.The Preacher must possess flexible personality, believing in difference and the capacity to contain difficulties.
5. The Preacher must be able to organise his/her topic, be good listener as well as be friendly.
6. The preacher must respect feelings of the audience and avoid underestimating them.
7. The preacher must observe the proper attire and manners that gurantee for him/her poise and dignity, while taking into consideration the norms of the country.
 
 













