addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in Malayalam (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise be to Allah for blessing us with a generous nation and greatest bounties. I extol Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status and I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatever is within them. And He is over all things competent.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imran: 200).
Dear Muslims,
The homeland is one's cradle where he lives, acquaints himself with its elements and enjoys its vicinity. As such anyone who has loved his country all throughout his life must be sincere in building it. In this sense, founding nations and civilisations is more than a mission; rather it is a covenant that only people in whom Allah invests honesty can fulfil. That is why people take to defend their homeland naturally and willingly. Some would sacrifice their life and this is the utmost form of generosity. Some would sacrifice their children or their wealth, while others would do all of these and even more.
In Surat Annaml (Ants), the holy Quran tells the story of a group of people who proposed to their queen to defend their homeland, capitalising on their might and strong will. "They said, 'we are men of strength and of great military might, but the command is yours, so see what you will command'." (Annaml: 33). Some scholars explained that the speakers in this verse were ready to defend their kingdom by hinting at using force. Yet while taking this stance, they let this matter to the queen with full belief in her prudent opinion. In so doing, they were all set to follow her orders.
As an outcome, she led them to safety thanks to her wisdom and good sense of judgement. This incident highlights the value of obedience, making it a beneficial lesson especially for the young who are the safety valve for any nation.
O Believers, please know that safeguarding the homeland is an honour like no other. Its unique status was stressed by the Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he said, "shall I tell about a night better than Laylat Al Qadr (the Night of Decree), [it is when] a guard who is on watch in a fearful place and who perhaps may not return to his family."
So congratulations to those who are away from their families, staying up all night so that others can sleep [peacefully]. They battle the cold so that their people and nation remain stable and secure. Because of their sacrifice they earn a higher rank.
On the narration of Artaa bin Al Mundhir that Umar bin Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, told his companions: "who are amongst people shall have greater reward?"
They said those who fast and pray, mentioning so and so. Thereupon, he said, "shall I inform you about the most rewarded of all those you mentioned?" They said, "yes please." He said, "a man reins his horse and guards Muslims, not knowing if there is a predator around to prey on him, a venomous snake to bite him, or an enemy to assault him. This is a greater recompense than those you mentioned."
Moreover, it is mentioned in a Prophetic Hadith that the watchful eye on people's rights, one that guards the borders of the nation and obeys Allah will, by His grace, not be touched by the Hellfire. Ibn Abbas narrated that he heard the Messenger of Allah pbuh saying, "there are two eyes that shall not be touched by the Fire: an eye that wept from the fear of Allah, and an eye that spent the night standing on guard in the cause of Allah."
Knowing this, anyone, who desires the great reward, should be content with what Allah has prepared for him while he defends his nation, whether in land, sea or sky. It was narrated by Sahl bin Saad, may Allah be pleased with him that Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "(Ribat) Guarding the frontier for a day in the cause of Allah is better than the world and what is in it."
In the same regard, Abdullah bin Amru, may Allah be pleased with him, said, I would rather love to stay up all night guarding and be afraid in the way of Allah, the most Exalted , than giving one hundred camels as charity.
Dear Servants of Allah,
For the cause of defending the nation one can sacrifice his life, give money or make achievements. An example of this noble mission was taken by a group of people who were praised in the Quran when they offered their wealth to protect their homeland from temptations and threats. The verse reads: "they said, 'O Dhul-Qarnayn, indeed Gog and Magog are [great] corrupters in the land. So may we assign for you an expenditure that you might make between us and them a barrier?'." (Al Kahf: 94). Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "the expenditure refers here to the money which people wanted to collect amongst themselves and give it out to Dhul-Qarnayn in return for erecting a barrier to keep their enemies away and under control.
Also, protecting the homeland can be achieved by serving it across all of its institutions and by being dedicated to performing work as it ought to be. Thus one has to be sincere about discharging his responsibilities, and should work on protecting the reputation of his nation. Failing to do so is failing to defend the nation and this is against what Our Prophet pbuh said, "everyone of you is a guardian and responsible for what is in his custody."
Dear Worshippers,
Protecting the nation is a responsibility that requires commitment, including praying for the nation and the ruler. On this matter a scholar said, "if I have an accepted supplication I will pray it for the ruler." Let us then pray to our Lord to confer upon our country goodness and prosperity as well as continuing safety and security. Doing this is one of the signs of loyalty and sincere sense of belonging. It also reflects the Prophets' traditions and manners. The Prophet Ibrahim pbuh, for example, prayed for his homeland saying, "my Lord, make this city [Mecca] secure." (Ibrahim: 35).
The Prophet Muhammad pbuh, for his part, supplicated for his homeland as he said, "O Allah, bless us in our mudd; O Allah, bless us in our saa; O Allah, bless with this blessing two more blessings."
With this in mind, you are urged to pray for your nation and supplicate to Allah to protect it and bless it with His generous favours. May Allah bless our country with continued bounties and keep it safe from all sorts of evil.
 May Allah help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that it falls on us to contribute effectively in educating our children on the love of their nation. It is our responsibility to prepare them during the peacetime to be the builders of their country's civilisation and glories and in need stand as the shield of protection. This is because they are the renewable source of energy from which the country draws its strength and resistance. In this regard, Umar bin Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "teach your children swimming, archery and horse-riding."
Further, let us salute the defenders of this generous nation: our Armed Forces, who ensure safety and security so that everyone can enjoy a stable and serene life. No wonder then if they are referred to as the wealth of this nation, its impervious fort, a symbol of its Union, a source of its pride and a pillar of its security. In fact without their role we could not have reached such a progress and steady prosperity at all levels. We truly appreciate their unyielding efforts in protecting the nation and its gains, for whose cause they offer their lives.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah grant success to our Armed Forces and add strength to their strength. May Allah reward them abundantly.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
Dear Servants of Allah,
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90). Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













