addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Merciful, and the most Compassionate. He ordered mercy and made it a sign of Iman (faith). I thank Him for His countless blessings and I bear witness there is no deity but Him, having no partners.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, being the Divine embodiment of mercy and grace. He was for humanity the guide to the right path. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (Annahl: 128). He also said, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Islam is a religion of solidarity, cohesion and mercy. It calls for leniency, highlighting compassion as one of the most distinguished characteristics of striving believers. The Almighty says in this regard, "and then being among those who believed and advised one another to patience and advised one another to compassion." (Al Balad: 17). That is the truthful believers, who show mercy to orphans, the poor and to all, will be amongst the "companions of the right" (Al Balad: 18).
The compassionate people are promised to receive Allah's mercy and pardon and find His satisfaction. Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said,"the Compassionate One has mercy on those who are merciful. If you show mercy to those who are on the earth, He Who is in the heaven will show mercy to you." He also said, "show mercy and you will be shown mercy. Forgive and Allah will forgive you."
However, those who are hardhearted will be denied Allah's compassion as evidenced in this Hadith, "Allah the Almighty will not show mercy to the person who does not show mercy to other people." Allah's Messenger added: "Mercy is taken away only from him who is miserable."
Dear Believers,
Showing mercy to one another is a Divine gift, inherent in people. It allows them to treat others with kindness, sympathise with them and seek to alleviate their sufferings. It is clear that those who have mercy must be lighthearted and of sublime character. And sooner or later they will get the reward they deserve. Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "Allah the most Exalted will say on the Day of Resurrection, 'O son of Adam, I fell ill and you visited Me not.' He will say, 'O Lord, and how should I visit You when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say, 'did you not know that My servant So-and-so had fallen ill and you visited him not? Did you not know that had you visited him you would have found Me with him?
"O son of Adam, I asked you for food and you fed Me not.' He will say 'O Lord, and how should I feed You when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say, 'did you not know that My servant So-and-so asked you for food and you fed him not? Did you not know that had you fed him you would surely have found that (the reward for doing so) with Me?
"O son of Adam, I asked you to give Me to drink and you gave Me not to drink.' He will say, 'O Lord, how should I give You to drink when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say, 'My servant So-and-so asked you to give him to drink and you gave him not to drink. Had you given him to drink you would have surely found that with Me.
He pbuh also said, "he who loves that Allah saves him from the torments of the Day of Resurrection should give respite to the insolvent or remit (his debt)." Knowing this let us then be compassionate in all of our affairs.
Dear Worshippers,
Because compassion is vast and wide we can mention but a few examples. Our Lord has instructed us to show mercy to our parents by obeying them, treating them nicely and praying for them. The Almighty says, "and lower to them the wing of humility out of mercy and say, "My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small." (Al Israa: 24).
Equally, we need to be compassionate with children by being nice and generous to them as well as raising them well. Our Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "he is not one of us who does not have mercy on our young and does not respect our elders."
Another aspect of mercy is honouring ties of kinship, which the Prophet pbuh stressed in this Hadith: "the womb is named after Ar-Rahman (the most Merciful), so whoever connects it, Allah connects him, and whoever severs it, Allah severs him."
It is imperative to know that being compassionate to orphans leads to softening one's heart and pleasing Allah. It was narrated that a man complained to the Prophet pbuh about hardned his heart had become. The Prophet pbuh replied to him, "if you want to soften your heart to soften, feed the poor and wipe the head of an orphan."
Further, clemency includes, for example, the lenient attitude of the wealthy towards the poor, the strong towards the weak, the healthy towards the sick, the head of family towards his dependents, the employer towards his employees, the teacher towards his students, in addition to other similar instances of daily life.
Dear Servants of Allah,
It is worth mentioning that compassion should not be limited to Muslims only, but should covers non-Muslims too. This can be achieved by bringing help to the afflicted and the needy, by showing them the virtues of Islam, explaining its principles in good words and treating them nicely.
Asmaa bint Abu Bakr said, "my mother came to me during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger pbuh and she was a pagan. I said to Allah's Apostle (seeking his verdict), 'my mother has come to me and she desires to receive a reward from me, shall I keep good relations with her?' The Prophet pbuh said, 'Yes, keep good relation with her'."
With this in mind, may Allah let us be merciful to each other always, grant us a compassionate heart, guide us to speak good words and do good deeds. May Allah help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the most Forgiving, the most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and be aware that, by His grace, Allah the Almighty has made compassion an authentic quality of UAE society, on both levels the people and their wise leadership. UAE has proved that it is a community of mercy as it sets the best example of giving that has benefitted various countries all over the world. This is seen in terms of the great positive response to the Compassion campaign "Tarahamo" initiated by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him. The aim is to provide relief to people in the Bilad As-Sham (the Levant region), who have been hit by calamities.
May Allah reward who has launched this initiative as well as anyone who is supervising it or has donated to it. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "the similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah help us to treat Your servants with mercy, do good in the way it pleases You, and grant us compassionate hearts that are humble to You, O the most Beneficent.
O Allah reward doers of good, bless their wealth and families and bestow upon them more of your kindness and generosity, O the most Generous.
O Allah, alleviate the sufferings of people in the Bilad As-Sham, help them overcome the bitterness of the winter cold and protect them. O Allah bring relief to the vulnerable and to those afflicted anywhere, O Most Merciful.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
Dear Muslims,
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













