addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
 
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He sent down the Quran as a guidance and mercy to the believers. I thank the Almighty, repent to Him and ask him for forgiveness. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, to whom Quran was revealed and asked to lead to the right path. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Him and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "and this [Quran] is a Book We have revealed [which is] blessed, so follow it and fear Allah that you may receive mercy." (Al Anaam: 155).
He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
It is out of Allah's mercy that He revealed to His servants the holy Quran because it is the greatest blessing and the clearest criterion. Therein lessons and evidence are cure for the diseases of the heart and sufficient answers for those seeking guidance.
The Exalted is He says, "O mankind, there has come to you a conclusive proof from your Lord, and We have sent down to you a clear light." (Annisaa: 174).
Indeed, the Quran is the beam that guides hearts, enlightens minds and effaces ignorance as it is illustrated in this verse: "Indeed, this Quran guides to that which is most suitable and gives good tidings to the believers who do righteous deeds that they will have a great reward." (Al Israa: 9). 
Therefore, it is a way of life, and is a source of civilisation. It calls for decent morals and right principles, achieves tranquillity and happiness and urges us to seek excellence. In this regards, the Almighty addressed His Messenger pbuh saying, "Ta, Ha, We have not sent down to you the Quran that you be distressed." (Taha: 1-2). That is, Quran was revealed not for the purpose of causing him (pbuh) pain and suffering, rather for making him the happiest man.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that the recitation of Quran is a winning trade, one of long-lasting benefits. So congratulations to those who engage in it and keep on reading it. The Almighty says, "indeed, those who recite the Book of Allah and establish prayer and spend [in His cause] out of what We have provided them, secretly and publicly, [can] expect a profit that will never perish -that He may give them in full their rewards and increase for them of His bounty. Indeed, He is Forgiving and Appreciative." (Fatir: 29-30).
In fact, adhering to the holy Quran by spending good amount of time reciting it and listening to it is a reason for winning higher status in Paradise. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "one who was devoted to the Quran will be told to recite, ascend and recite carefully as he recited carefully when he was in the world, for he will reach his abode when he comes to the last verse he recites."
O Believers, please be aware that Quran recitation is one the great causes of  pleasing Allah, as the Prophet pbuh said, "the one who memorised the Quran shall come on the Day of Judgement and (the reward for reciting the Quran) says, 'O Lord, decorate him.' So he is donned with a crown of nobility. Then it says, 'O Lord, give him more.' So he is donned with a suit of nobility. Then it says, 'O Lord, be pleased with him.' So He is pleased with him and says, 'recite and rise up, and be increased in reward with every Ayah'.''
Our Prophet pbuh urged us to read Quran because it elevates us in this world and is an intercessor for us in the Hereafter. He said, "read the Quran, for it will come as an intercessor for its readers on the Day of Resurrection." In another Hadith, he said, "Allah has His own people among mankind." They said, "O Messenger of Allah, who are they?" He said, "the people of the Quran, the people of Allah and those who are closest to Him."
Further, the Prophet pbuh assured us the double reward of reading the Quran, when he said, "[whoever recites a letter] from Allah's Book, then he receives the reward from it, and the reward often the like of it. I do not say that Alif Lam Mim is a letter, but Alif is a letter, Lam is a letter and Mim is a letter."
O Muslims, if you desire receiving the recompense and the merit of the book of Allah, then make it your companion. Please know that the best people in this regard are those who compete and are committed to reading it, studying it and excelling in it. The Prophet said, "one who is skilled in the Quran is associated with the noble, upright recording angels, and he who falters when he recites the Quran and finds it difficult for him will have a double reward."
O People of the Quran,
Our Lord has ordered us to ponder the meanings contained in His book with humble hearts and conscious minds as He says, "[this is] a blessed Book which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that they might reflect upon its verses and that those of understanding would be reminded." (Sad: 29). The Almighty also says, "and recite the Quran with measured recitation." (Al Muzzammil: 4). Here He advised us to do that nicely.
Reading it frequently is important as related by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "read the Quran regularly, for by the One in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, it escapes from memory faster than a camel does from its tying ropes."
Reciting the Quran and contemplating its meanings is an obligation that we should honour. This should be part and parcel of our activities at home. In so doing, we can set the example for our family members. The Prophet pbuh said, "do not make your houses as graveyards. Satan runs away from the house in which Surat Al Baqara is recited.
On the same matter, Hasan Al Basri, may rest his soul in peace, said, "adhere to the book of Allah, look into its examples and while doing this be amongst the people of wisdom." He also said, "Fortunate are those who compare themselves and their work with the Quran, so if they act accordingly they praise Allah. They also ask Him to help them increase their good deeds. However, if they contradict the Quran they blame themselves and then repent soon after."
Having this in mind, we implore our Lord to help us embrace ethics of the Quran and make it easier for us to read during periods of the night and at the ends of the day. May Allah also help us to obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that He has made the Quran easier for us to recite and memorise. The Exalted is He says in this regard, "and We have certainly made the Quran easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?" (Al Qamar: 17).
For his part, our Prophet pbuh said, "the best among you is he who learns and teaches the Quran." In the following Hadith, he pbuh informed us about the great reward that awaits he who has taught it to his children:
"whoever recites the Quran and learns it, and then acts upon it, he will be made to wear on the Day of Resurrection a crown of Nur (light), which will be as radiant as the sun. And his parents will be dressed with two suits, which the whole world cannot match. So they will ask, 'for what have we been dressed like this?' It will be said, 'this is the reward of your son's acquiring Quran'."
As the Quran is a blessed tool to safeguard the youth, our wise leadership has devoted great interest to it. It has built memorisation centres all over the UAE, and organised contests with the aim of engaging the community to read, memorise and study the meanings of the Quran. May Allah reward their efforts.
From this perspective, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments and other concerned entities have also been keen to translate the leadership's vision in this beneficial domain. For example, they have provided outstanding staff to ensure our children are in good care. Let us then register them in those centres and encourage them to learn the Quran, which helps educate them, refine their behaviours and ultimately make them beneficial to themselves, families, community and the nation as a whole.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pub for Allah say, "Indeed, Allah and His angels send blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pub said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication." May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pub, his family and all his Companions? May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Othman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment?
Oh Allah, I call on you to make the Holy Quran the spring and light of my heart, the vanishing of my sorrow and sadness, O the Most Beneficent.
O Allah, we implore you at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask you to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan? May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness the Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs? O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to you to grant your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to you to forgive whoever built a mosque where your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah relieves us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, and relieve us.
Dear Servants of Allah,
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Anal: 90).
O servants of Allah remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "And establishes prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













