addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the most Exalted, the Perfect. O my Lord, to You all praise, so much pure praise, inherently blessed. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice." (Al Ahzab: 70).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the Almighty has blessed the Muslim Nation with moderation as He says, "and thus we have made you a just community." (Al Baqara: 143).
He spelled out well-fledged laws and the most straight and clearest path for it. Moderation is seen as a great advantage and a high merit that is recommended by our Prophet Muhammad pbuh as narrated by Jabir bin Abdullah who said, "we were with the Prophet pbuh, and he drew a line (in the sand), then he drew two lines to its right and two to its left. Then he put his hand on the middle line and said, 'this is the path of Allah.' Then he recited the Verse: 'and verily, this (i.e. Allah's Commandments) is My straight path, so follow it and follow not (other) paths, for they will separate you from His path'."
The course of Allah is the religion He sent down as a mercy to the Worlds, encompassing moderation and tolerance. Our Prophet pbuh said that the religion that Allah loves the most is the simple Hanafiyya one. That is, the Exalted is He does not want it to be too difficult. For this reason, moderation is a quality of the pious and the elected Imams. Ali ibn Abu Talib said, "you should take the middle way for it is the common ground for those who are either reckless or too strict." Knowing this let us then adopt this characteristic, and be just in all of our life matters.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Moderation has many qualities, which we need to know. This includes ease and removal of hardship. Here the principle of ease is identical to moderation as our Lord says, "Allah intends for you ease and does not intend for you hardship." (Al Baqara: 185). In many places, our Prophet advised us to adhere to a lenient approach to life and avoid stern attitude. He pbuh said, "facilitate things to people (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them and give them good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam)."
Moreover, He pbuh warned those with stern attitude by highlighting their fate: "ruined, were those who indulged in hair-splitting." He (the Holy Prophet) repeated this three times.This prompted Umar ibn Al Khattab to say that we were forbidden affectation. So blessed are those who have embraced the course of moderation and easiness and avoided extremism.
Dear Worshippers,
Moderation is a beautiful principle, one that instils in us such noble values as honesty, loyalty, generosity, kindness, leniency, compassion, justice and equity. Likewise, it purifies our souls, empowering us to adhere to the best of ethics, overcome anger and revenge, and opt for forgiveness. In this regard, the Almighty says, "and who restrain anger and who pardon the people - and Allah loves the doers of good." (Al Imrarn: 134). In the same regard our Prophet pbuh says, "and Allah increases the honour of him who forgives."
Moderation also means treating people nicely and having fine behaviours that allow the individual to choose the most appropriate words and acts. The Exalted is He says, "and tell My servants to say that which is best. Indeed, Satan induces [dissension] among them. Indeed Satan is ever, to mankind, a clear enemy." (Israa: 53).
Dear Servants of Allah,
In fact moderation covers many aspects of life, namely spending rationally and avoiding excess and stinginess. Our Lord, the most Exalted, says, "and [they are] those who, when they spend, do so not excessively or sparingly but are ever, between that, [justly] moderate." (Al Furqan: 67). He also says, "and do not make your hand [as] chained to your neck or extend it completely and [thereby] become blamed and insolvent." (Al Israa: 29(.
Indeed good management of spending, responsible use of resources, rational consumption and protection of wealth lie at the core of moderation.
Dear Muslims,
Being moderate should not be limited amongst Muslims only. It should also be the basis of our dealing with all people by treating them kindly as Allah the Almighty says, "and spend in the way of Allah and do not throw [yourselves] with your [own] hands into destruction [by refraining]. And do good; indeed, Allah loves the doers of good." (Al Baqara: 195).
In this regard, our Prophet pbuh warned strongly against causing harm to non-Muslims when he said, "beware, if anyone wrongs a contracting man, or diminishes his right, or forces him to work beyond his capacity, or takes from him anything without his consent, I shall plead for him on the Day of Judgment."
Dear Worshippers,
A key to moderation is to avoid extremist attitudes or related bold calls for Takfir (Excommunication) and blood-shedding. Extremists should know that they are far from the spirit of Islam and its tolerance. In so doing, they are acting against its moderate principles and purity. Our Prophet pbuh said, "religion is very easy and whoever overburdens himself in his religion will not be able to continue in that way." He pbuh also warned that whoever accuses a believer of disbelief, then it is as if he had killed him.
In another Hadith, he pbuh says, "verily, I fear about a man from you who will read the Quran so much that his face will become enlightened and he will come to personify Islam. This will continue until Allah desires. Then these things will be taken away from him when he will disregard them by putting them all behind his back and will attack his neighbour with the sword accusing him of Shirk." The Prophet was asked, "which of the two will be deserving of such an accusation? The attacker or the attacked?" The Prophet replied, "the attacker (the one accusing the other of Shirk)."
With this in mind, may Allah help us to adhere to moderation and the best of morality. We also plead with You to help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that moderation is beneficial to the individual and the community. It is a means to get good things, achieve interests, goals, stability and promote harmony and compassion.
Also with moderation, lives are safeguarded; wealth and dignity are preserved, closing the door in front of deviant and destructive thoughts and ideas. In short, it is the way towards adhering to the religion and to what pleases Allah, hence leading to the good life in this world and the Hereafter. Allah says, "Indeed, those who have said, "our Lord is Allah," and then remained on a right course- there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve." (Al Ahqaf: 13).
Verily, we are fortunate in this generous country where Allah the most compassionate has blessed us with moderation, letting us unite further and bring us closer to each other in an environment with prevailing stability and progress
O Muslims, indeed believing and acting in accordance to moderation, educating our children in line with its principles as well as duly appreciating the favours we have is a reason for preserving them and also for their increase.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
 On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah set right for us our religion, which is the safeguard of our affairs. And set right for us the affairs of the world wherein is our living. May Allah also set right for us our Hereafter on which depends our after-life. May Allah make life for us an increase in everything that is good, O the Lord of the Worlds.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
Dear Servants of Allah,
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













