addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Sovereign and the Bestower. He gives wisdom to whom He wills. O my Lord, to You all praise, so much pure praise, inherently blessed, I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah having no partners.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is Allah's Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "and remember the favour of Allah upon you and what has been revealed to you of the Book and wisdom by which He instructs you. And fear Allah and know that Allah is Knowing of all things." (Al Baqara: 231). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
The noble Quran tells us many meaningful lessons and stories to benefit from as mentioned in this verse: "There was certainly in their stories a lesson for those of understanding." (Yusuf: 111).
Amongst things Allah told us in the Quran were the commandments of Luqman who was one of the pious servants of Allah. The Almighty elevated his status and lauded him in the Quran. There is even a Surah that is named after him: Luqman. In it Allah says, "and We had certainly given Luqman wisdom [and said], 'Be grateful to Allah' ." (Luqman:12).
Wisdom comes in the sense of understanding, knowledge, appropriate speech and rational opinion. These are beneficial blessings. He, who has them, is a fortunate one and shall benefit of much good. The Exalted is He says, "He gives wisdom to whom He wills, and whoever has been given wisdom has certainly been given much good. And none will remember except those of understanding." (Al Baqara: 269).
Luqman was amongst those whom Allah had blessed with good manners and high morality. It was said to him: "how did you make it to this high rank? He answered: "Speaking honestly, honouring the pledge and ignoring that which is not my own concern." Truly he was a wise man. He was thoroughly committed to perfection in behaviour, and was always grateful to his Creator.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Luqman set a wonderful example in the art of dialogue with children. He did this through advice that are beneficial and comprehensive. They were educational morals expressed politely.  He began his commandments to his son with kind-hearted parental appeal, saying: O my son! This is a good lesson for parents on how best to talk to their sons and daughters, share with them their experience, surround them with care, educate them and refine their way of thinking. They would do that while taking on wisdom and good counsel. In this regard, Allah the Almighty says, "invite to the way of your Lord with wisdom and good instruction" (Annahl: 125).
It is truly beautiful that the father to be wise and intimate with his children, be lenient with them, talk to them nicely, listen to their problems with an open mind and try to solve them sensibly. It is equally great thing to see parents raise their children to behave leniently, speak nicely and avoid violence. Further, parents need to instil in them noble values and the best manners.
Dear Worshippers,
The first thing Luqman started with when addressing his son was nourishing his heart with Iman. This is in order to strengthen his connection with his Lord and eventually fulfil his obligations towards Allah and others the way it should be. The Almighty says, "O my son, do not associate [anything] with Allah . Indeed, association [with him] is great injustice." (Luqman: 13).
Luqman was keen to increase his son's awareness of the fact that Allah is watching over us in secret or public. Thus he would remind him of Allah's Might and that He the Exalted encompasses all things in knowledge; from him nothing is hidden in the earth nor in the heaven. Allah says, "[and Luqman said], "O my son, indeed if wrong should be the weight of a mustard seed and should be within a rock or [anywhere] in the heavens or in the earth, Allah will bring it forth. Indeed, Allah is Subtle and Acquainted." (Luqman: 16).
So anyone, who believes that Allah having absolute knowledge, certainly will seek His satisfaction, excel in his work, heed Him while dealing with people, do good to others and never inflict harm.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Luqman urged his son to observe Salat (prayer), which is the pillar of the religion and the greatest act of worships. He was quoted as saying in this verse: "O my son, establish prayer." (Luqman: 17). Indeed prayer purifies hearts and souls, refines manners and  prohibits immorality and wrongdoing,
Dear Worshippers,
Other aspects highlighted by Luqman to his son were good treatment of people. He advised him to be humble and kind and avoid being arrogant, adhere to best ethics and be sober and sensible. He was quoted in this verse as saying, "and do not turn your cheek [in contempt] toward people and do not walk through the earth exultantly. Indeed, Allah does not like everyone self-deluded and boastful." (Luqman: 18).
That is do not show off and disdain people; nor should you turn away if they talk to you. Rather you must be nice to them and when you address them be cheerful.
It was also wise of Luqman that when he forbade his son from wrong behaviours, he guided him to the right ones that he should follow. He said, "and be moderate in your pace and lower your voice." (Luqman: 19). This means one has to walk with serenity and avoid raising his voice without any obvious reason, because this is affectation hurting others.
Further Luqman used to educate his son to treat people with compassion and be kind to them. He was keen to prohibit him from causing harm, so he used to tell him, " be wise enough so that people be spared your evil." These are truly beautiful qualities and highest morals.
With this in mind, may Allah help us to succeed in speech and work and guide us to the best of manners. We also plead with You also to help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that amongst Luqman's commandments as narrated: "O my son, sit with scholars, for Allah revives hearts with wisdom as He revives the dead land with rain."
He advised him to do so because this is how he could learn from their knowledge and acquire good insight and perception. Wisdom is thus a light that guides hearts to more acts of obedience and keep them away from misdeeds. That is why Abu Juhayfa said, "sit with the important people of the community and wise people as well as ask the scholars."
Knowing this, we should therefore raise our children on benefitting from scholars with moderate approach for that keep them away from falling in wrong doings and delving in falsehood.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56). On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, guide us to the best of attitudes, for there is no one who guide to them, except You. O Allah avert us the bad attitudes for there is no one who prevent them, except You, O most Merciful.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her  parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
O Allah, give us rain and do not make us among the despondent. O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us, O Allah, relieve us.
Dear Servants of Allah,
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













