addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He created man and honoured him. He has also bestowed upon him blessings and taught him. I extol the Almighty Allah as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status and I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O mankind, fear your Lord and fear a Day when no father will avail his son, nor will a son avail his father at all. Indeed, the promise of Allah is truth, so let not the worldly life delude you and be not deceived about Allah by the Deceiver." (Luqman: 33).
Dear Muslims,
The Exalted is He has conferred upon His servants plenty of blessings and offered them nowadays windows to science and knowledge that have never been accessible before. By the grace of Allah, people succeeded to invent new and unprecedented tools like the new modes of transport which help them move easily and conveniently. The Almighty says, "and [He created] the horses, mules and donkeys for you to ride and [as] adornment. And He creates that which you do not know." (Annahl: 8).
As you can see at the end of this verse, Our Lord brings our attention to the prospect of producing more types of transportation thanks to our inherent intelligence and knowledge. Some of those novel inventions that facilitate life and we enjoy so much are vehicles, which proved to be a better means of transportation than animals. The importance of efficient transportation is evidenced in this Hadith: "Part of a man's happiness is a spacious dwelling, a good neighbour, and a good mount."
So those who get this favour are fortunate and should appreciate it dearly, preserve it, best use it and thank Allah for it. Indeed our Lord ordered us to be grateful for having these blessings in many places like in this verse: "And who created the species, all of them, and has made for you of ships and animals those which you mount. That you may settle yourselves upon their backs and then remember the favour of your Lord when you have settled upon them and say. "Exalted is He who has subjected this to us, and we could not have [otherwise] subdued it. And indeed we, to our Lord, will [surely] return." (Azzukhruf: 12-14).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Traffic safety is one of the great purposes of our religion aiming at preserving private and public interests. To help achieve this, we have to observe the rights of the road as our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said in the following Hadith: "fulfil the rights of the road." This can include anything from respecting traffic law, to avoiding distraction caused by the use of mobile phones for reading or sending messages. Being engaged in such acts is harmful and may lead to disastrous consequences. The Almighty says, "and do not throw [yourselves] with your [own] hands into destruction." (Al Baqara: 195).
To this end, we need also to get calm, restrain ourselves, be patient, watch the road, anticipate others' mistakes, give way as much as we can, use the parking areas in the most optimal way and be lenient. Our Prophet pbuh said, " verily Allah loves kindness in every matter."
Dear Muslims,
To protect traffic safety, one has to commit to many acts, most importantly prudence. Being cautious is a good moral, about which our Prophet pbuh said as he was addressing one of his companions, "you possess two qualities that Allah loves. These are clemency and tolerance." He also says, "Taking the good route is a part of the twenty-four parts of Prophethood."
Prudence implies here avoiding excessive speed while driving as this violates the law and contradicts one's dignity, not to forget that it may lead to fatal accidents. Our Lord says, "and the servants of the Most Merciful are those who walk upon the earth easily."  (Al Furqan: 63). That is, quietly and solemnly.
Else, our Prophet pbuh ordered us to commit to tranquillity in our pursuit of prayer, being the greatest act of worships. On this matter he said "when the Iqamah is called for the prayer, do not come running. Come walking with tranquillity. Whatever you catch up with, pray, and whatever you miss, complete it."
Also Islam calls upon us to be prudent in all matters of our life because haste makes waste of all forms.  The Messenger of Allah said, "deliberateness is from Allah, and haste is from the Ash-shaitan."
Careful consideration of decisions can only bring good outcomes, and is also a means to achieve goals and objectives as expressed in this Hadith: "al-Qasd (always adopt a middle, moderate, regular course) whereby you will reach your al-Qasd (target)." Another endorsement is highlighted in this poetry verse: "A cautious man may reach but little of his target, as opposed to the hasty man who may turn rather faulty."
Dear Worshippers,
We should know that the soul is a great trust, which  Allah the Almighty has assigned to us. So neither must we take it, nor cause it harm. Our Lord says, "and do not kill yourselves [or one another]. Indeed, Allah is to you ever Merciful." (Annisaa: 29).
In fact, amongst the primary goals of religion are safeguarding lives and interdicting all forms of harm upon others. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "there is no injury nor return of injury." He pbuh also banned us from frightening people in any way, so he said, "it is not lawful for a Muslim that he frightens a Muslim."
In the same manner, he who violates traffic law contradicts religion. This is because either he will harm himself, others or both. And a Muslim is enjoined to refrain from doing that as illustrated in the following Hadith: "The Muslim is the one from whose tongue and hand the people are safe."
O Muslims, beware and avoid causing any harm to anyone; otherwise, you will slide in sins and turn out to be losers.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that respecting traffic regulations reflects the fine attitude of the motorist and the extent of his commitment to laws and systems, which are drawn for the good of society. These laws and regulations are tools for benefiting people and the nation, protecting lives and maintaining facilities and properties. So let us then work hand in hand to achieve traffic safety as Allah the most Exalted says, "and cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al Maeda: 2).
With this in mind, O Allah help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that breaching traffic regulations most likely leads to high risks and damages. For indeed many devastating accidents happened, many lives lost, many families bereaved, many people have been permanently disabled, lots of money wasted and roads damaged just because of traffic accidents resulting from negligence and indulgence. 
Part of their engagement in the welfare of citizens and residents, our leadership are strongly keen on people's safety by enacting traffic laws and carrying out awareness campaigns. So the whole responsibility lies on everyone as our Prophet pbuh said, "everyone of you is a guardian, and responsible for what is in his custody."
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, help us to succeed in good speech and work and protect us from sins. O Allah bless us with the grace of thanking You for Your bounties on us and for worshipping You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and  whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her  parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













