addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He orders us to treat our parents nicely and considers their respect a cause to be closer to Him. Moreover He associates honouring parents with faith. I extol Allah as much as the most grateful do.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him. Be compassionate to one another and reflect on what Allah says in this verse: "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Our Lord has instructed us to thank Him and follow  His orders. He has also ordered us to remain grateful to our parents as He says, "and your Lord has decreed that you not worship except Him, and to parents, good treatment." (Al Israa: 23).
Because their rights are important, Allah links thanking parents with thanking Him as it is illustrated in this verse: "be grateful to Me and to your parents." (Luqman: 14). As we can see honouring our parents is an obligation and amongst all people, they are the ones who deserve our respect most.
O Muslims, remember that parents are the closest people to you and the ones who love you most. Respecting them is therefore one of the dearest acts to Allah the Almighty. In this regard, His Messenger pbuh said, "the best of the deeds or deed is the (observance of) prayer at its proper time and kindness to the parents."
Kindness to parents is one of the Prophets' qualities, the way of the pious and the individual's commitment to executing the command of the Lord of heaven and earth. The Prophet Issa pbuh urged his people saying, "and has enjoined upon me prayer and Zakah as long as I remain alive and [made me] dutiful to my mother, and He has not made me a wretched tyrant." (Maryam: 31-32).
The Exalted is He praised his Messenger Yahya because he treated his parents nicely, saying "and dutiful to his parents, and he was not a disobedient tyrant." (Maryam: 14).
Another example was that of Allah's Messenger Nuh pbuh who used to pray for his parents saying, "My Lord, forgive me and my parents and whoever enters my house a believer and the believing men and believing women." (Nuh: 28).
For their part, the first Muslims set a wonderful example in honouring parents. It was reported that Abu Hurayra, may Allah be pleased with him, used to greet his mother as he entered his land in louder voice saying, "Peace be upon you, mother and the mercy of Allah and His blessing!" She would reply, "and peace be upon you and the mercy of Allah and His blessing." He would say, "may Allah have mercy on you as you raised me when I was a child." She would reply, "My son, may Allah repay you well and be pleased with you as you were dutiful towards me when I was old." Truly this is a fine attitude and a best morality.
Hasan al Basri reported that ibn Umar, may Allah be pleased with him, saw a man carrying his mother and circling the Kaaba. He (the man) said, "O mother, do you think I have done enough to compensate you?" He then added: "By Allah, this cannot equal even one contraction." This refers to the pain and hardship associated with childbirth.
Dear Worshippers,
Respecting parents takes many forms. When addressing them, we have to be gentle as did the Messenger of Allah Ibrahim pbuh, who would say to his father: "O my father!" This way he pbuh stressed his father's right and showed respect to him. Being good to them includes also sitting with them and entertaining them, because they need and deserve more of our attention and companionship.
It was reported that a man came to Allah's Messenger pbuh and said, "O Allah's Messenger pbuh, who is more entitled to be treated with the best companionship by me?" The Prophet pbuh said, "your mother." The man said, "who is next?" The Prophet said, "your mother." The man further said, "who is next?" The Prophet pbuh said, "your mother." The man asked for the fourth time, "who is next?" The Prophet pbuh said, "your father."
To be dutiful to them requires of us also being considerate to them by avoiding walking in front of them, sitting down before they do or calling them by their names only. In this regard, Abu Hurayra, advised a man to be good to his father saying, "do not call him by his own name nor walk in front of him nor sit down before him."
Indeed, fortunate are those who reached adulthood while their parents, or one of them, are still alive. If you are such a person, then hasten to do good to your parents and fulfil their needs. It is highly rewarding to dedicate a time for them to sit with them and entertain them. In so doing, please remember that our parents are our way to Heaven as Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "the father is the middle door of Paradise (i.e. the best way to Paradise".(
The Prophet pbuh also advised a man to take care of his mother telling him: "serve her, for there is Paradise." That is, obeying one's mother is a reason for entering Paradise.
Being good to parents is thus a cause for accepting one's good deeds, removing sins and winning Paradise. This calls in mind the verse where Allah has promised reward to two people who persevered in treating their parents well: "Those are the ones from whom We will accept the best of what they did and overlook their misdeeds, [their being] among the companions of Paradise. [That is] the promise of truth which they had been promised." (Al Ahqaf: 16).
In a Hadith, our Prophet pbuh said, "in my sleep, I saw myself in Jannah, and I heard the voice of Quran reader (among my followers). I enquired, "who is that?" And I was told, "Haritha ibn Nauman." Allah's messenger pbuh then added, "such is truness (to one's Lord), and such is the true one (to his Lord)."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Kindness to parents does not end upon their death. It is always possible for anyone to make up for what he has missed or increase further good deeds.
Also one can pray for his parents whether they are alive or dead. Allah the Almighty says, "and lower to them the wing of humility out of mercy and say, "My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small." (Al Israa: 24).
Another way to do that is through acts of charity on their behalf as it is illustrated in the following Hadith: A man said to the Prophet pbuh, "my mother died suddenly and I thought that if she had lived she would have given alms. So, if I give alms now on her behalf, will she get the reward?" The Prophet replied in the affirmative.
Further, we can fulfil their covenant after their death, honour the ties of kinship and treat kindly their acquaintances.
This point is clearly highlighted in the following narration: Abdullah bin Umar met a Bedouin on his way to Mecca, he greeted him, offered him to mount the donkey he was riding and gave him the turban he was wearing on his head.
Ibn Dinar said to him: "May Allah make you pious! Bedouins can be satisfied with anything you give them (i.e., what you have given the Bedouin is too much). Upon this, Abdullah bin Umar said, the father of this man was one of Umar's friends whom he loved best, and I heard the Messenger of Allah saying, "the finest act of goodness is the good treatment of someone whom one's father loves."
O Muslims, remember that credit shall go to those who have been kind to their parents whether they are alive or dead.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah make us amongst those who are grateful to Him. May Allah help us treat our parents kindly and honour our kinship. We also plead with him to help us obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59(.
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and be know that being dutiful to parents shall be rewarded greatly by Allah whether in this life or the next. Our Prophet pbuh said, "Allah's pleasure results from the parent's pleasure, and Allah's displeasure results from the parent's displeasure."
Amongst those rewards is a long blessed life and affluent livelihood. The Prophet pbuh said, "He that it pleases him that his age be prolonged for him and that his subsistence be increased for him, then let him treat his parents with bir (goodness) and maintain close relations with his relatives."
What is more, doing good to parents and being grateful to them is a reason for accepting prayers and relieving plights. Allah's Messenger pbuh has said, "Uwais is one of the best followers, who has been dutiful to his mother. If he were to adjure in the name of Allah (about anything) Allah would fulfil that."
And please do not forget that if you respect your parents you shall have your children respecting you just in the same way. Indeed who does good, Allah will, by His Grace, recompense Him. Allah says, "is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Arrahman: 60.(
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, guide us to thank our parents and help us to be dutiful to them. May Allah be pleased with us and our parents, O the most Compassionate.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













