addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He ordered us to seek stability. He at the same time interdicts causing harm. I extol Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status, and I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers.
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imaran: 200).
Dear Muslims,
Our clear religion is a blessing as it aims to achieve highly venerable objectives and establish happy and dignified life based on faith, guidance, kindness, piety, stability, harmony and firm union. It also looks forward to development and progress. It is a fully comprehensive religion that consists of virtues, seeking to accomplish interests and rid of corruption. The Almighty says, "and the word of your Lord has been fulfilled in truth and in justice." (Al Anaam: 115). That is, everything he says is true, every matter He orders is just and every act he forbids is evil. In fact Allah does not interdict something unless it is harmful.
In the same regard, our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "it was the duty of every Prophet that has gone before me to guide his followers to what he knew was good for them."
This is reflected in the principles of peace and coexistence, which Islam laid down the foundation. Islam also interdicts anything that may threaten peace. It is a religion that calls for safeguarding lives and properties, protecting societies and nations, preserving acquisitions, maintaining the wheel of development and growth and averting strife and evils.
Islam values highly peace for it makes it a top pursuit and a way of greetings (Salam) amongst Muslims in this life and the Hereafter. Stressing its importance, the Almighty says, "their greeting the Day they meet Him will be, "Peace."and He has prepared for them a noble reward." (Al Ahzab: 44).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Our Lord has instructed us to empower ourselves enough in order to safeguard the peace and maintain stability. On this matter He says, "and prepare against them whatever you are able of power." (Al Anfal: 60).
The Almighty has also asked us to take caution to avoid all that may threaten the supreme interests, as He says, "O you who have believed, take your precaution." (Annisaa: 71). In another verse, the Exalted is He ordered us to rally around the ruler to achieve this noble goal: "And hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided." (Al Imaran: 103).
Our Prophet pbuh highlighted this order with the most clear and eloquent manner when he said, "a commander (of the Muslims) is a shield for them. They fight behind him and they are protected by (him from tyrants and aggressors)."
This Hadith comes to shed light on the position of the ruler as a protector for his subjects. He defends them from the enemy and stands against them falling in internal strife. His subjects have to fight alongside with him against any unjust and corrupt for the good of people's interests. This has been a matter of consensus amongst scholars and people of wisdom. It has also been confirmed by the religion and laws. Moreover, failing to do so will result in a situation where the strongest will overpower the weakest and the unjust violate the rights of the innocent
Dear Worshippers,
Islam has urged us to take a wise attitude in all matters of life and, as such, actions should suit context. It asks us to be lenient when required and be firm and steadfast when need be. Islam also authorises self-defence and brings succour to the others against oppression and aggression. In this endeavour, it allows to adopt resolute measures in order to secure safety and security, if necessary. The Almighty is He says, "so whoever has assaulted you, then assault him in the same way that he has assaulted you. And fear Allah and know that Allah is with those who fear Him." (Al Baqara: 194). The Almighty also says, "and those who, when tyranny strikes them, they defend themselves." (Ash-Shura: 39).
This refers to the obligation of addressing the unjust and stopping him with the aim of averting his evil acts. And while it is highly commendable to forgive the weak, it is unacceptable to do so for the arrogant oppressor. In fact, if we treat him with mercy we may encourage him to continue in his acts of oppression and injustice.
Dear Muslims,
Maintaining stability was one of the priorities set by our Prophet pbuh. He was keen to spread principles of peace and coexistence, lay their foundation in the society and prevent all forms of abuse and oppression. Thus at times he was lenient but at others he was firm and resorted to deterrent measures as it might have required.
On the narration of Anas ibn Malik in Sahih Al Bukhari, may Allah be pleased with them, that some people came to the Prophet pbuh and embraced Islam. The climate of Medina did not suit them, so the Prophet pbuh ordered them to go to the (herd of milch) camels of charity and to drink, their milk and urine (as a medicine). They did so, and after they had recovered from their ailment (became healthy) they turned renegades (reverted from Islam) and killed the shepherd of the camels and took the camels away. The Prophet sent (some people) in their pursuit and so they were (caught and) brought, and the Prophets ordered they would be killed.
The Prophet pbuh pronounced this harsh punishment against the culprits because of their grave doings and the risk they posed to society and its stability.
For their part, the Companions were committed to preserving coexistence and peace following the example of the Prophet pbuh by being compassionate at times and steadfast at others.
For example, when some people went into rebellion during the ruling of Ali ibn Abu Talib, may Allah be pleased with him, he advised them kindly. He also gave them a grace period with the hope they would come to their senses and repent. But they did not respond positively, rather they persisted in and went too far in killing people. They stole properties and engaged in robberies. In every sense of the word, they had threaded the lives of people and the stability of the community as a whole. So Ali ibn Abu Talib together with other Companions addressed them firmly using power until they eliminated this source of evil.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah save us from every temptation and evil and spare us all that is bad. We also plead with Him to help us obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that stability is a supreme interest and a vital necessity, which every sensible person must preserve. Without it people cannot feel safe about their lives, nor can they pursue their interests, build their present or look forward to the future.
Also without it, hardly can progress occur, nor does civilisation prosper. As a result, calamities fell upon people. That is why our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "whoever among you wakes up physically healthy, feeling safe and secure within himself, with food for the day, it is as if he acquired the whole world."
O worshippers, our wise leaders have not spared efforts to achieve this supreme interest either internally or externally. They have cooperated with sisterly and friendly states to lay the foundations of right and justice and respond to oppression, threat and corruption in line with Allah's instruction: "and cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al Maeda: 2). In this same regard the Prophet pbuh said that Allah brings support and mercy to those who remain united.
Knowing this, may Allah bless our leadership, raise the status of our nation, save our soldiers, people and brothers from all evils. May Allah also spare us the wickedness of the malevolent and the greedy.
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah perpetuate our unity, safeguard our safety and progress. May Allah also bring success to our leaders in all matters of good, preserve our soldiers and be their best assistant, O the most Beneficent.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 













