addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He paid tribute to the well-doers amongst His servants, and raised the status of the good spenders. I bear witness there is no deity but Him, having no partners. I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His best Servant and the best who gave. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and do good in light of what He says, "so fear Allah as much as you are able and listen and obey and spend [in the way of Allah ]; it is better for your selves. And whoever is protected from the stinginess of his soul - it is those who will be the successful." (Attaghabun: 16). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Our religion is one of righteousness and charity, a mercy to man. It has brought the best ethics and called for the best actions. It enjoined also upon us to bring succour to the distressed, make it easy for the insolvent and help the needy. Islam has made all of these elements part and parcel of Iman (faith) and also causes for attaining happiness and success.
The Exalted is He says, "so give the relative his right, as well as the needy and the traveller. That is best for those who desire the countenance of Allah, and it is they who will be the successful." (Arrum: 38). He has ordered kindness to all people and bringing help to the afflicted with no discrimination. The Almighty has made this a general principle of high standing and said, "and do good; indeed, Allah loves the doers of good." (Al Baqara: 195).
For his part, our Prophet pbuh instilled this great meaning in people's souls and minds. He pbuh said in this regard, "every act of goodness is (considered) Sadaqa (charity)." He further said, "there is a reward for service to every living animal."
Please know that Islam has devoted special importance to kindness and urged us to spend. Good doers are therefore entitled to great recompense.
Saiyda Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, reported: "A poor woman came to me along with her daughters. I gave her three dates. She gave a date to each of them and then she took up one date and brought that to her mouth in order to eat that, but her daughters expressed desire to eat it. She then divided the date that she intended to eat between them. This (kind) treatment of her impressed me and I mentioned what she did to Allah's Messenger pbuh. Thereupon he said, 'verily Allah has assured Paradise for her, because of (this act) of her, or He has rescued her from Hell-Fire'."
Indeed, it is a great virtue that earned this poor but generous mother the most desirable thing: the eternal abode in Paradise.
Dear Muslims,
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh was the most generous of all his people. He was the first, the keenest to help the needy and the distressed. In fact he had been a fine example in kindness even before his prophethood. Addressing him (pbuh), Saiyda Khadija, may Allah be pleased with her said, "never! By Allah, Allah will never disgrace you. You keep good relations with your kith and kin, help the poor and the destitute, serve your guests generously and assist the deserving calamity-afflicted ones."
Truly these are great qualities that are worthy to embrace in order for us to show the beauty of our religion and the nobility of our values and humanness.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Kindness comes in many forms. For example good speech is one way to guide the bemused, lift up the spirit of the depressed and encourage one to engage in charity.
Our Lord says, "no good is there in much of their private conversation, except for those who enjoin charity or that which is right or conciliation between people. And whoever does that seeking means to the approval of Allah - then We are going to give him a great reward." (Anissaa: 114). On the same matter, our Prophet pbuh said, "a good word is also Sadaqa."
Also part of kindness is to give out charity to meet people's needs and overcome their plights. Mundhir bin Jarir reported on the authority of his father: "While we were in the company of the Messenger of Allah pbuh in the early hours of the morning, some people came there (who) were barefooted, naked, wearing striped woollen clothes, or cloaks, with their swords hung (around their necks). Most of them, nay, all of them, belonged to the tribe of Mudar. The colour of the face of the Messenger of Allah pbuh underwent a change when he saw them in poverty. He then entered (his house) and came out and commanded Bilal (to pronounce Adhan). He pronounced Adhan and Iqima, and he (the Holy Prophet) observed prayer (along with his Companion) and then urged them to give charity.
"Then a person from among the Ansar came there with a money bag which his hands could scarcely lift; in fact, they could not (lift). Then the people followed continuously, till I saw two heaps of eatables and clothes, and I saw the face of the Messenger pbuh glistening, like gold (on account of joy).
"Later the Messenger of Allah pbuh recites: 'he who sets a good precedent in Islam, there is a reward for him for this (act of goodness) and reward of that also who acted according to it subsequently, without any deduction from their rewards; and he who sets in Islam an evil precedent, there is upon him the burden of that, and the burden of him also who acted upon it subsequently, without any deduction from their burden' (Annisaa: 114)."
Exchanging gifts is yet another aspect of generosity which has a great role in attracting souls and winning people's hearts. It was reported that our Prophet pbuh dedicated Umar bin Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, a precious jewel. In turn, Umar gave it away to his brother in Mecca, although the latter was then not a Muslim.
Dear Worshippers,
Kindness yields numerous fruits with great goodness and virtues. It is a way for obtaining the ultimate reward from the Almighty Allah as He says, "indeed, the men who practice charity and the women who practice charity and [they who] have loaned Allah a goodly loan - it will be multiplied for them, and they will have a noble reward." (Al Hadid: 18).
It is also a cause for winning a position close to Allah and receiving His satisfaction, mercy, protection and support. The Almighty says, "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (Annahl: 128).
Congratulations to those who are blessed by their Lord and commit themselves to donating, offering help to the distressed and bringing assistance to the needy. This way, they win this life and the next life. Also they earn their Lord's satisfaction and shall have, by Allah's grace, Paradise as their eternal abode.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah help us to be amongst those who give generously. We also plead with You to help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed upon us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and be aware that our nation led by our judicious leaders has been blessed by Allah so much that it has become a oasis for good-giving. In it donors compete in giving and rush to help others. In fact, UAE spares no effort in supporting victims, bringing relief to those in distress and standing by the needy in accordance with the fine morality of our religion, of our Prophet Muhammad pbuh as well as that of the founding father of the UAE, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. Please know that the unrelenting philanthropic engagement of UAE has made it the biggest humanitarian aid donor worldwide.
Allah has promised whoever does good success and comfort, as He says, "and do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj: 77).
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, make us amongst Your generous servants, guide us to do good and be beneficial to others.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
 
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 













