addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I thank Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also testify that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He called for all that is good and right, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Him the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
He also said, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
The Almighty is He sent His Messenger with guidance. He taught him that which he knew not. He also endowed him with wisdom and eloquence, as mentioned in this Aya: "Certainly did Allah confer [great] favour upon the believers when He sent among them a Messenger from themselves, reciting to them His verses and purifying them and teaching them the Book and wisdom, although they had been before in manifest error." (Al Imarn: 164).
Thus, among the Prophet pbuh's great advice to his believers were such those reported by Abdullah bin Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him. He said, "I was behind the Prophet pbuh one day when he said, 'O boy, I will teach you a statement: Be mindful of Allah and He will protect you. Be mindful of Allah and you will find Him before you. When you ask, ask Allah, and when you seek aid, seek Allah's aid. Know that if the entire creation were to gather together to do something to benefit you- you would never get any benefit except that Allah had written for you. And if they were to gather to do something to harm you- you would never be harmed except that Allah had written for you. The pens are lifted and the pages are dried'."
This Hadith is comprehensive in meanings that are central to people's lives and being the provision as well as the path for the pious. It started with a great advice: "Be mindful of Allah and He will protect you." Such an order can be achieved only by doing what Allah has enjoined upon us and avoiding what He has prohibited.
Dear Servants of Allah,
This Prophetic advice is inclusive in the sense that it calls upon Muslims to honour things that Allah has banned. Our Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Allah is self-respecting and a believer is also self-respecting and the respect of Allah is injured if a believer does what He has forbidden him to do."
Here the Muslim is urged to protect his limbs and senses. Accordingly, neither must he listen to what angers Allah, nor must he look at what displeases Him. The Almighty Allah says, "indeed, the hearing, the sight and the heart - about all those [one] will be questioned." (Al Israa: 36).
The individual must also protect his tongue and say but good speech. Further he must be committed to chastity, as stated by our Master Muhammad pbuh: "Whoever can guarantee (the chastity of) what is between his two jaw-bones and what is between his two legs (i.e. his tongue and his private parts), I guarantee Paradise for him."
Another aspect highlighted by our Prophet in his advice to Muslims is related to ways of earning one's livelihood. He pbuh insisted that a person should only eat what is Halal (permissible) and spend likewise. The Exalted is He says, "O mankind! Eat of that which is lawful and good on the earth." (Al Baqara: 168).
Thus, one should respect others' rights, fulfil his trust and obligations, be just, endorse the best of morality, be of pure heart, treat people well, spend in charity and avoid evil.
Dear Worshippers,
What can help a Muslim avoid Allah's prohibitions is to think of His Might and that He is watching over us always. Our Prophet pbuh urged us just to do that when he said, "Ihsan is to worship Allah as if you see Him, and if you do not achieve this state of devotion, then (take it for granted that) Allah sees you." Indeed our Lord is watching over what we do, as He says, "and Allah is Ever a Watcher over all things." (Al Ahzab: 52).
The Exalted is He knows about our innermost conscience and nothing hides from His sight even if it is equal to the weight of an atom. Our Prophet pbuh called upon us to be mindful of Allah and said, "fear Allah wherever you are, do good deeds after doing bad ones, the former will wipe out the latter, and behave decently towards people."
Truly, it is so beautiful to evoke Allah's presence whether in worships or when dealing with people, including our own families and close relatives as well as when we are in work, handling transactions or giving service to our community and nation. Thus Allah, by His grace, will preserve us in this life and the Hereafter. Our Prophet pbuh used to increase prayers saying, "O Allah, give me protection in front of me and behind me, on my right and my left and above me."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Amongst the fruits of Allah's protection to His servants are love, kindness and support. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "be mindful of Allah and you shall find Him with you." That is, He will assist you with His Might, opens the door of his Mercy and bless you with His abundant provision. Indeed Allah is the Bestower, the withholder, the Afflictor, the Source of Good. Allah says, "whatever of mercy (i.e. of good), Allah may grant to mankind, none can withhold it; and whatever He may withhold, none can grant it thereafter. And He is the All-Mighty, the All-Wise." (Fatir: 2).
Allah's protection brings tranquillity and happiness to people in this life and the next as He says, "and whosoever believes in Allah, He guides his heart." (Attaghabun: 11). In the interpretation of this Aya, ibn Abbas said that Allah guides one's to the true faith with certainty such that he knows that what struck him would not have missed him, and that what missed him would not have struck him.
This was the certainty and faith of Prophets. For example, the Messenger of Allah, Hud pbuh, told his people: "I put my trust in Allah, my Lord and your Lord! There is not a moving (living) creature but He has the grasp of its forelock. Verily, my Lord is on the Straight Path (the truth)." (Hud: 56).
Anyone who is heedful of Allah, Allah will, by His favour, preserve him in body, and protect his offspring and wealth. A righteous person shall have his progeny protected and the blessings of his worships shall also reach them in this life and the next.  Allah the most Exalted says, "and their father was a righteous man." (Al Kahf: 82). And whoever Allah has protected at his young age, He shall preserve him later in old age. Thus, by His grace, Allah will bless him with hearing, sight and sound mind. Some scholars said that we had protected these senses from sins at young age and ultimately Allah preserved them in older age.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah shroud us with His protection and make us amongst those who duly observe what He likes and pleases Him. We also plead with Him to help us obey Him, His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those He has decreed on us to obey in compliance with His orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and benefit us all in whatever is in it of the Ayas and the Wise Dhikr. I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the month of Shaaban has a great status and is a prelude to Ramadan, bringing in spiritual atmosphere. During this month, our Prophet pbuh used to be diligent in fasting because of its great reward. Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her said, "the Messenger of Allah did not fast in any month of the year more than he did in Shaaban. He used to fast most of it."
When asked why he was fasting any month as much as Shaaban, he pbuh said, "that is a month to which people do not pay much attention, between Rajab and Ramadan. It is a month in which the deeds are taken up to the Lord of the Worlds, and I like that my deeds be taken up when I am fasting."
The same is reiterated in this Hadith: "Allah looks down on the night of the middle of Shaaban and forgives all His creation, apart from the idolater and the Mushahin."
So congratulations to those who have had their inner self clean, adorned their record with good deeds and seized the month of Shaaban for fasting and engaging in long-lasting kind acts. Those people shall have their good deeds taken up and sins forgiven.
O Muslims, bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah make us amongst Your pious servants, those who obey Your orders, thank Your blessings. May Allah bestow upon us Your endless bounties and encompassing Mercy, O Possessor of Glory and Honour.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 
 













