addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I extol Him as is befitting to His great sovereignty and glorious status. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates.
I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (Annisaa: 1).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the Almighty chose for His Messenger Muhammad pbuh the best of wives, ones of highest status and respect. Allah elevated them to the rank of the Mothers of Believers, as He says, "the Prophet is closer to the believers than their ownselves and his wives are their (believers') mothers." (Al Ahzab: 6). They were particularly distinguished by virtues and status that no other women had had. The Exalted is He says, "O wives of the Prophet! You are not like any other women." (Al Ahzab: 32).
Each of the Prophet's wives had great merits. Saiyda Khadija bint Khuwaild, may Allah be pleased with her, was the first to enter Islam. When the first revelation came to the Prophet pbuh while he was in Hiraa cave, he went to her and broke the news. She believed him straightway and said, "by Allah, Allah will never disgrace you ... "Khadija then accompanied him to (her cousin) Waraqa bin Naufal and told him, "O my cousin! Listen to the story of your nephew." Waraqa asked, "O my nephew! What have you seen?" The Prophet pbuh described whatever he had seen. Waraqa said, "this is the same Namus (i.e., Jibreel, the Angel who keeps the secrets). 
Saiyda Khadija had been a support for the Prophet pbuh: she witnessed and assisted him in many tough situations. And she was all through patient. She was also an ideal example of the faithful wife who stood by her husband in his afflictions, shared with him his grieves, comforted him in his ordeals and strengthened his resolve in the face of difficulties. Indeed she set the best example of how a good wife should do to maintain the stability of her household, and strive for the happiness of her family. Thus Allah the most Exalted promised her a serene eternal abode made of pearl in Paradise. Allah also ordered Jibreel, peace be upon him, to greet her from there.
Our Prophet pbuh had been faithful to her during her life and after her death. He used to remember her and  praise her by saying, "she believed in me when people denied me, she believed me, when people did not, she supported me with her money, when people deprived me, Allah has blessed me with her children and deprived me of the children of people"
As such a Muslim household should be one of sacrifice, faithfulness and giving. In it the family should live in happiness, stability, peace and contentment.
Dear Worshippers,
Saiyda Aisha bint Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with her, was honest and sincere. Allah chose her for his Messenger as from seven heavens. Saiyda Aisha narrated that the Prophet pbuh said, "I saw you in a dream for three nights when an angel brought you to me in a silk cloth and he said: Here is your wife, and when I removed (the cloth) from your face, lo, it was yourself, so I said: If this is from Allah, let Him carry it out." She was the dearest to the Prophet as reported by Amru bin Al As when he asked him saying, "O Messenger of Allah, which of the people is most beloved to you?' He said: "Aisha."
The Prophet pbuh praised her, showing her elevated status. He said, "the superiority of Aisha to other ladies is like the superiority of Thareed to other kinds of food." He also prayed for her saying, "O Allah! Forgive Aisha her past and future sins, what she has hidden, as well as what she has made apparent."
Saiyda Aisha used to fast and perform late night prayers. A devout worshipper as she was, she was also dignified, generous and one of the most knowledgeable people. She was the reference for the Companions when they were faced with a difficult matter. Abu Musa al Ashaari said, "never was a Hadith unclear to us - the Companions of the Messenger of Allah - and we asked Aisha, except that we found some knowledge concerning it with her."
In fact, Allah awarded her promptitude, intelligence and the ability to memorise quickly many sayings of the Prophet pbuh. She was an example to follow for those who sought knowledge. She was their source of inspiration to strive further, verify the authentic sources and seek lucid understandings. For another, she was the example of the woman who was well-versed in her religion and was aware of her age requirements, benefitting herself, family and community out of knowledge and insight. Thus Allah is pleased with her and her father.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Amongst the Prophet's wives was Umm Salama Hind bint Abu Umayya. She was known for her rational views and wisdom, including when the Prophet pbuh agreed the Hudaybiya truce and ordered his companions to discard the Umra Ihram and return back to Medina. Yet that was too difficult for them to do in fear of losing reward. So they objected to it.
Thereupon, the Prophet pbuh came to Umm Salama and told her of the attitudes of people towards him and she said, "O the Prophet pbuh of Allah! Do you want your order to be carried out? Go out and don't say a word to anybody till you have slaughtered your sacrifice and call your barber to shave your head."
So, the Prophet pbuh went out and did not talk to anyone of them till he did that, i.e. slaughtered the sacrifice and called his barber who shaved his head. Seeing that, the companions of the Prophet pbuh got up, slaughtered their sacrifices, and started shaving the heads of one another.
Truly wisdom is a great blessing for things cannot be handled except by it.
To achieve happiness, it is incumbent on the individual to make knowledge and good reasoning his guide and wisdom his goal. The Exalted is He says, "He grants Hikmah to whom He pleases, and he, to whom Hikmah is granted, is indeed granted abundant good. But none remember (will receive admonition) except men of understanding." (Al Baqara: 269).
As we have seen Umm Salama enjoyed a great lot of wisdom, may Allah be pleased with her and with all the Mothers of Believers, the pure, as well as with the Prophet pbuh's family. May Allah also grant us their love and help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that our Prophet pbuh is like the father to us, even more, as he said, "I am like father to you." His wives are the mothers of Believers, who Allah instructed us to treat them kindly and with utmost respect, as in this Aya: "no reward do I ask of you for this except to be kind to me for my kinship with you." (Ashura: 23).
Our Prophet pbuh, for his part, advised us to treat well his wives and family. In a sermon he addressed believers saying, "now to our purpose. O people, I am a human being. I am about to receive a messenger (the angel of death) from my Lord and I, in response to Allah's call, (would bid good-bye to you), but I am leaving among you two weighty things: the one being the Book of Allah in which there is right guidance and light, so hold fast to the Book of Allah and adhere to it. And then said, "the second are the members of my household I remind you (of your duties) to the members of my family." Zaid was asked: "Who are the members of his household? Aren't his wives the members of his family?" Thereupon he said: "His wives are the members of his family."
Please remember that it is an obligation to revere them highly given their status as a good example of morality, refined manners and ethics. There were also an example of people who compete in embracing knowledge, giving, tolerance and highlighting the crucial role of women in building civilisation and progress. May Allah be pleased with them all.
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 
 













