addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He has made this life a provision and the next life a judgement. I admire Allah as much as the most grateful do and I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. Allah is the Supporter of the pious, the Granter and Acceptor of Repentance.
I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Imam of the pious and the Seal of the Prophets. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Recompense.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
He also said, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Amongst the signs of Allah are the alternation of the night and the day and the relentless passage of years and ages. This is a great sermon for those of clear insight and understanding, as He says, "and He it is Who has put the night and the day in succession, for such who desires to remember or desires to show his gratitude." (Al Furqan: 62). That is, the Exalted is He has made the succession of days and nights so people will be able to compensate for the good they missed. As such, anyone who failed to do good deeds at night can rectify that at daytime and vice versa.
Our Lord has made this world a "farm" for the eternal life, wherein good work is the winning trade. Allah says, "Who has created death and life that He may test you which of you is best in deed." (Al Mulk: 2).
Indeed congratulations to those who seize their time to make up for things they have missed and work for their future. This way they are continuously seeking their Lord's obedience, elevating themselves and benefitting their families, community and nation.
Dear Servants of Allah,
The fortunate amongst people are those who criticise themselves and review their deeds. So if they find they have done good work, let them thank Allah and increase their deeds. However, if they realise they have not done enough, they need to repent and ask for forgiveness. At the same time, they should rest assured that the gateway towards good deeds is always open and repentance is never impossible. 
On this matter, Umar ibn Al Khattab, may Alah be pleased with him, said, "Judge your deeds before they are judged and weigh your deeds before they are weighed. It is easier upon you to judge yourself today for the Day of Judgment and to weigh your deeds today in preparation for that day." Allah says, "that Day shall you be brought to Judgement, not a secret of you will be hidden." (Al Haqa: 18).
Anyone who judges himself shall have his conditions amended because he believes that Allah the Almighty has counted His servants' work and promised them reward on the Day of Judgement. The Exalted is He says, "and all things We have recorded in a Book." (Annabaa: 29). This Aya highlights the fact that our Lord has decreed on people all what they did. Therefore, He will reward them according to what they have done, whether good or evil.
Further to this explanation is to be found in this Aya: "on the Day when every person will be confronted with all the good he has done, and all the evil he has done, he will wish that there were a great distance between him and his evil. And Allah warns you against Himself (His punishment) and Allah is full of kindness to (His) slaves." (Al Imran: 30).
Dear Worshippers,
To prepare for the next life, one has to invest in his time and appreciate its value as well as evaluate what he has offered of deeds. Each one of us must remember that one's lifetime is limited and only his work he can take forward to the eternal life. And delay in taking action only deprives the person of the opportunity to do good deeds. It may also happen that one keeps telling himself he would do some good work, but his fate could come sooner and stand between him and his wishes.
The Exalted is He says, "and spend (in charity) of that with which We have provided you before death comes to one of you, and he says: "My Lord! If only You would give me respite for a little while (i.e. return to the worldly life), then I should give Sadaqa (i.e. Zakat) of my wealth, and be among the righteous [i.e. perform Hajj (pilgrimage to Makkah) and other good deeds]. And Allah grants respite to none when his appointed time (death) comes. And Allah is All-Aware of what you do." (Al Munafiqun: 10-11).
Our Prophet advised a man telling him:  "Take benefit from five before five: your life before your death, your health before your illness, your spare time before you get busy, your youth before your old age and your wealth before your times of poverty."
That is why any one of us needs to make the best use of his time by doing all possible beneficial work. We should also reflect on the fact that this world is reaching closer and closer to its end, and we are getting closer and closer to the hereafter. Today is the time for work, and tomorrow is the time for judgment.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Definitely, man is susceptible to err and forget as Allah says, "and man was created weak." (Annisaa: 28). In the same regard, the Prophet pbuh says, "all the sons of Adam are sinners, but the best of sinners are those who repent often."
Nevertheless, the sensible person remains proactive. He lets the good side of him grow and prosper. He also compensates for what he lacks. So when he does wrong things, he turns to his Lord asking His forgiveness and mercy. Likewise, if he does less to serve his household and relatives, he will treat them kindly and honour ties of kinship. Further, if he does injustice to someone, he will ask his pardon.
Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "whoever has oppressed another person concerning his reputation or anything else, he should beg him to forgive him before the Day of Resurrection when there will be no money (to compensate for wrong deeds), but if he has good deeds, those good deeds will be taken from him according to his oppression which he has done, and if he has no good deeds, the sins of the oppressed person will be loaded on him." 
This is how a believer should be, someone who rectifies his past mistakes and wrong acts so he can be ready to his next life and stand before his Creator. Glad tidings then to those who are prepared for the Day of Judgement as they observe Allah's rights the way He has ordered, fulfil people's rights, increase good deeds and avoid sins.
The Prophet pbuh said, "there will be none among you but his Lord will talk to him, and there will be no interpreter between him and Allah. He will look to his right and see nothing but his deeds which he has sent forward, and will look to his left and see nothing but his deeds which he has sent forward, and will look in front of him and see nothing but the (Hell) Fire facing him. So save yourself from the (Hell) Fire even with half a date (given in charity)."
With this in mind, may Allah enlighten our hearts, let us fill our time with acts of obedience and bestow upon us Your blessings. We plead You also to grant us success in our religion and life and help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that knowledge is the basis for human advancement and one of the best centres of interest. It is a pursuit that enlightens one's perspective and elevates him. It also helps him serve his religion and nation.
O students, as you are embarking upon exams, be keen to strengthen your will, get prepared and arm yourself with all that it takes to succeed.
Please keep in mind also that what you reap is just what you sow and that you are the men of tomorrow. You are the source of glory and wealth to your society and country thanks to your talents and know-how. For this purpose, you are required to strive hard and put your trust in Allah the Almighty. Indeed whoever depends on Allah, He will grant him success, as our Prophet pbuh said, "be keen on what benefits you and seek help from Allah, and do not give up."
For their part, parents are required to help their sons and daughters to achieve excellence by ensuring them the suitable environment and encouraging them to seek the path for success. They need also to help them overcome difficulties and pray for them so they can be their joy in this life and the next. The Exalted is He says, "and those who say: "Our Lord! Bestow on us from our wives and our offspring the comfort of our eyes, and make us leaders of the Muttaqun (the pious)." (Al Furqan: 74).
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, help us to do what You like and pleases You. O Allah, help us also to worship You as it ought to be and make the path of success easier for our children, O the most Beneficent.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 
 













