addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He blessed the righteous with special days to increase acts of obedience and attributed Ramadan especially with greater virtues and blessings.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He urged us to compete in doing good and acts of worships. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be mindful of Allah the Almighty and obey Him, in light of what He says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al Baqara: 183)
Dear Muslims,
Few days and Ramadan will come, a sacred month in which our Lord opens doorways to mercy and bestows upon us His plentiful blessings.  It is the believers' gain and the provision of the pious. About it, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "on the first night of the month of Ramadan, the Shayatin are shackled, the jinns are restrained, the gates of the Fires are shut such that no gate among them would be opened. The gates of Paradise are opened such that no gate among them would be closed, and a caller calls: 'O seeker of the good; come near!' and 'O seeker of evil; stop! For there are those whom Allah frees from the Fire.' And that is every night."
For Muslims, it is the best of all months and its days are mercy and emancipation. In it fells the Laylat al-Qadr (Night of Decree), which is better than a thousand months. Ramadan is an opportunity to elevate oneself and renew his bonds with Allah. It is also a season for rectifying one's shortcomings and is a competition field for doing good deeds. Al Hasan Al Basri, may Allah rest his soul in peace, said, "Allah the most Exalted has made Ramadan an arena in which people compete with each other in doing good deeds in hope of earning his satisfaction." Indeed, fortunate are those who have lived to reach Ramadan, seized its days and strived harder during its nights to renew their faith and increase their good deeds.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Ramadan is a great school that cleans the soul and purifies the heart. As a welcome to this holy month, we need first and foremost to strengthen our relation with our Lord by supplicating to Him wholeheartedly. The first thing to do is to seek repentance from Allah the Almighty, for it is great way to give fresh life to our relation with our Lord, the most Merciful. Indeed He loves the repentant and forgives those who ask for forgiveness as evidenced in this Aya: "and verily, I am indeed forgiving to him who repents, believes (in My Oneness, and associates none in worship with Me) and does righteous good deeds, and then remains constant in doing them, (till his death)." (Taha: 82).
The doorway to repentance is open and Allah's blessings are limitless, as He says, "except those who repent and believe (in Islamic Monotheism), and do righteous deeds; for those, Allah will change their sins into good deeds, and Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful." (Al Furqan: 70).
A Muslim should also preserve religious duties, reading Quran and increasing Nawafil (optional prayers). In a Qudsi Hadith, Allah the Almighty says, "and My servant does not draw near to Me with anything more loved to Me than the religious duties I have obligated upon him. And My servant continues to draw near to me with nafil (supererogatory) deeds until I Love him."
Dear Worshippers,
For another, Ramadan is an occasion to uplift the way we treat our parents, strengthen our ties with them, be generous with them, and fulfil their needs. These acts are amongst many major causes to receive Allah's mercy and win His satisfaction in the month of repentance and forgiveness. The Almighty says, "and We have enjoined on man (to be dutiful and good) to his parents. His mother bore him in weakness and hardship upon weakness and hardship, and his weaning is in two years - give thanks to Me and to your parents. Unto Me is the final destination." (Luqman: 14).
Ramadan is also an opportunity to strengthen family bonds by promoting affection between the married couple and treating one another well. Each spouse must respect the other's rights since marriage is meant to be a source of tranquillity, mercy, mutual love and kindness.
On another level, Ramadan is a good time for boosting our relation with our sons and daughters by giving them good care, educating them well, arming them with faith and fine morality and guiding them to think and behave soundly.
Dear Muslims,
There are numerous ways to improve oneself in Ramadan, including strengthening one's relation with the community by promoting compassion and consolidating cohesion as well as by treating each other in accordance with good morality and noble values. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "the dearest and the closest of you to me on the Day of Resurrection will be those who are the best in behaviour."
Indeed glad tidings to those who will get the privilege of being close to the Prophet pbuh in Paradise. And it is so beautiful thing to welcome Ramadan by rendering people's rights as ordered by the Almighty: "verily! Allah commands that you should render back the trusts to those to whom they are." (Annisaa: 58).
As we are approaching this holy month, it is incumbent upon us to achieve solidarity and cooperation, touch people's hearts with happiness and joy. This is because Ramadan is about generosity, spending and kindness. It is also the right time to give help to those in need because they are never happier to receive it than in Ramadan.
Dear Servants of Allah,
In this season of obedience, we also renew our relation with our nation and wise leadership so that our country progresses further. In this endeavour we shall be equipped with sincere will, strong stamina and beneficial knowledge. We shall also attach to the Quran and Sunna and observe the aims of our religion, its tolerance and moderation. At the same time, we shun away from anything that may cause discord and division and warn against terrorism, its causes and methods. The result of this approach is great in this life and the next, tremendously benefiting individuals, families, communities and nations.
So congratulations to those who benefit from these few days by engaging in acts of obedience.
With this in mind, we supplicate to Allah to bless for us the remaining days of Shaaban, make us to be among those who will witness the coming Ramadan, help us fast and perform night prayers as well as guard the tongue and read Quran. May Allah help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe, Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Zakat is one of the most important pillars of Islam. Allah the most Exalted ordered it along with prayers in His lucid Book. It is an obligation due to benefit the poor and is a symbol of solidarity and cooperation amongst Muslims. It has rewarding advantages for individuals and society as a whole. It cleans the person from stinginess and teaches him to be generous. Our Lord says, "take Sadaqah (alms) from their wealth in order to purify them and sanctify them with it, and invoke Allah for them. Verily! Your invocations are a source of security for them; and Allah is All-Hearer, All-Knower." (Attawba: 103).
Zakat is also a blessing, a protection for one's wealth and a means to increase recompense. In this regard the Almighty says, "And that which you give in gift (to others), in order that it may increase (your wealth by expecting to get a better one in return) from other people's property, has no increase with Allah; but that which you give in Zakat (sadaqa - charity etc.) seeking Allah's Countenance, then those, they shall have manifold increase." (Arrum: 39).
Our Prophet pbuh specified its measures, conditions and time of delivery so that Muslims know their obligations. To know further, they are advised to seek the counsel of trusted scholars as mentioned in this Aya: "So ask of those who know the Scripture if you know not." (Annahl: 43).
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah make us amongst those who will witness Ramadan, help us fast and perform night prayers. May Allah also help us pray to You in the best of ways, O the Most Exalted.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 
 













