addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He has made fasting a protection for us and availed the fasting people a special gateway towards the Paradise.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him the most Exalted, having no associates. I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. He urged us to engage in doing the best of acts and speak, except the best of words. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "And march forth in the way (which leads to) forgiveness from your Lord, and for Paradise as wide as the heavens and the earth, prepared for Al-Muttaqin (the pious)." (Al Imran: 133).
Dear Muslims,
Allah has bestowed upon us the great blessing of witnessing Ramadan wherein Allah ordered us to do acts of charity. It is our duty therefore to seize this opportunity to undertake good deeds and acts of obedience. Indeed Ramadan is unique. There is no month like it, nor are there any better days for engaging in charity work than during its days. It is a month for worship. In it fasting is a duty and late night prayer is a rite. Ramadan is a month of forgiveness and is an occasion for winning highest ranks in Paradise.
It has overwhelmed us with its fragrant whiff, blessed nights and beautiful days. And although its days are numbered, their well-being is great. Allah the Almighty described them as:  "[Fasting for] a limited number of days." (Al Baqara: 184).
So glad tidings to those who have welcomed Ramadan the way it should be and are keen to benefit from its days and nights. Allah the most Exalted says, "and for this let (all) those strive who want to strive (i.e. hasten earnestly to the obedience of Allah)." (Al Mutaffifin: 26).
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that fasting has great merits and high values. Thus, Allah has elevated the status of the fasting people by offering them a gate in Paradise; no one enter through it except them. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "there is a gate in Paradise called Ar-Raiyan, and those who observe fasts will enter through it on the Day of Resurrection and none except them will enter through it. It will be said, 'where are those who used to observe fast?' They will get up, and none except them will enter through it. After their entry the gate will be closed and nobody will enter through it".
Our Lord has attributed great merits to fasting and promised immense reward to those who observe it. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "Allah, the mighty and sublime, said: 'Every deed of the son of Adam is for him, except fasting; it is for Me and I shall reward for it'." Moreover, fasting people are promised to have their misdeeds forgiven as our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever fasted the month of Ramadan out of sincere Faith (i.e. belief) and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his past sins will be forgiven."
That is, anyone who observes fasting while believing in the obligation of fasting and seeking pardon from his Lord will get mercy and forgiveness. Similarly, those who observe fast sincerely and fulfil its conditions shall be privileged and be amongst the winners and the righteous.
O who fast,
Fasting has valuable ethics that must be respected, like guarding the tongue and senses from indecent speech or act, and observing the best of talk and work. The Prophet pbuh said, "whoever does not give up forged speech and evil actions and does not abandon foolishness, Allah is not in need of his leaving food and drink (i.e. Allah will not accept his fasting)."
 In another Hadith, he stressed the same commands saying, "If one of you is fasting, he should avoid sexual relation with his wife and quarrelling, and if somebody should fight or quarrel with him, he should say, 'I am fasting'."
Indeed, it is so beautiful to fast, guarding one's hearing, vision, tongue and all of his senses. It is equally great if he could amend his relations with others and cooperate with them in righteousness and piety. Indeed the fasting person must be honest in speech, trustworthy in transactions, perfect in discharging his responsibilities, moderate and tolerant in his attitudes.
Dear Muslims,
Please remember that Ramadan is a month of Quran as stated in this Aya: "The month of Ramadan in which was revealed the Quran, a guidance for mankind and clear proofs for the guidance and the criterion (between right and wrong)." (Al Baqara: 185). The Muslim is therefore advised to reflect on Quran's meanings when reading it. Likewise, he is advised to recite it solemnly, exploring the meanings, morals and teachings incorporated in its Ayas. As such, the reader of Quran would find in it tranquillity as our Lord says, "those who believed (in the Oneness of Allah - Islamic Monotheism), and whose hearts find rest in the remembrance of Allah: verily, in the remembrance of Allah do hearts find rest." (Arraad: 28).
Our Prophet pbuh used to urge people to recite Quran, especially in Ramadan. He would say, "fasting and Quran will intercede on behalf of the slave, fasting will say, 'O Allah, I deprived him from eating and drinking, let me intercede for him.' In addition, the Quran says, 'O Allah, I deprived him from sleeping at night let me intercede for him.' At the end, they are permitted to intercede on his behalf." Those who read Quran, reflect on its meanings and follow its orders shall, by Allah's favour, receive due recompense.
During Ramadan, it is also recommended to increase prayers and supplicate to Allah, for He says, "and when My slaves ask you (O Muhammad pbuh) concerning Me, then (answer them), I am indeed near (to them by My Knowledge). I respond to the invocations of the supplicant when he calls on Me (without any mediator or intercessor). So let them obey Me and believe in Me, so that they may be led aright." (Al Baqara: 186).
The fasting person is close to Allah the most Exalted. His prayers shall be accepted as our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "three supplications are answered: The supplication of the fasting person, the supplication of the traveller, and the supplication of the oppressed."
Congratulations then to those who increase prayers for themselves, family, nation and the ruler. They are to be rewarded for asking Allah for forgiveness and praying to Him during periods of the night and at the ends of the day. The Almighty says, "and remember your Lord much (by praising Him again and again), and glorify (Him) in the afternoon and in the morning." (Al Imran: 41).
Other charity work that our Prophet pbuh called on people to do and promised their doers great recompense are giving food and providing Iftar to fasting people. He said, "whoever gives food for a fasting person to break his fast, he will have a reward like theirs, without that detracting from their reward in the slightest".
Increasing charity and spending are aspects of good deeds in Ramadan. Our Prophet pbuh was the most generous people, and he would be even more generous during Ramadan.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah accept our fasting and prayers. We also plead with You to help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that amongst the qualities of the pious believers is abstaining from begging. The believer should be grateful to and content with Allah's blessings. This is further stressed in the following Hadith: "Gabriel came to me and said, 'O Muhammad, live as you wish, for you shall eventually die. Love whom you desire, for you shall eventually depart. Do what you please, for you shall pay. Know that the night-prayer is the honour of a believer, and his pride is being independent on others."
The same notion is highlighted in yet another Hadith: "and whoever abstains from asking others for some financial help, Allah will provide for him and save him from asking others; Allah will make him self-sufficient."
To achieve this goal, Islam urges us to seek work to earn our living and be independent. We must not beg anyone, because begging is harmful to us, whether as individuals or as a community. Our Prophet pbuh said, "no doubt, one had better take a rope (and cut) and tie a bundle of wood and sell it whereby Allah will keep his face away (from Hell-fire) rather than ask others who may give him or not. "
Please know also that begging is illegal. So kindly cooperate with the concerned authorities by reporting begging cases if any.
Knowing this, bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication".
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah help us to benefit from these precious days. May Allah also help us to fast, pray and read Quran as well as make us amongst those of the winners, O the most Beneficent.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
Translation
 
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version
 













