addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Islamic Affairs has etched its name into the world's most prestigious record book by setting up the world's largest Waqf donation box. The box is identical in shape to the actual boxes Awqaf is using for collecting donations, but its size has been modified to meet the specifications and measurements outlined by Guinness World Records.
On this occasion Awqaf Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, stated that this initiative had been achieved in cooperation with "our strategic partners as Awqaf is keen to adopt actions conducive to attracting donations from philanthropists and providing innovative methods for raising funds...during this blessed month of Ramadan."
Awqaf and Aldar Properties agreed to host the event at Yas Mall, one of the favoured family and entertainment destinations in Abu Dhabi. The box sits on an area of 156 sqm at Town Square in the mall, and consists of six shop-like chambers with a mix of Andalusian and Emirati architecture, which reflects the Islamic heritage. Opposite to it, an information point was set up to introduce visitors to Awqaf, its services, achievements, endowment and investment projects, mosques, Haj and Umra services, Quranic memorisation centres, the UAE Official Fatwa Centre as well as information on fundraising.
Aldar CEO, Mohammed Khalifa Al Mubarak, said, "we are glad to host this important event at Yas Mall...This occasion is a good example of the strong ties with Awqaf and their representatives who honoured us today. Yas Mall has become a prominent tourist destination and I would like to seize this opportunity to thank Awqaf for choosing the mall as a place for this event, hence giving [us] a chance to be part of its [Awaqf] success.
"I would also like to stress that Aldar Properties shall remain a supporter of Awqaf's initiatives, giving the necessary material and moral assistance and contributing to its various programmes for the good of our society and nation."
Guinness World Records provided Awqaf with a certificate and a registration code for the world's largest donation box.

 
 













