addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He made the intellect and its maintenance one of the purposes of religion and urged us to think soundly.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates and that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Imam of the pious and the Seal of the Prophets. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, the Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab: 70-71).
Dear Muslims,
In Ramadan, hearts soften and people strive in worshipping the Knower of the Unseen. They increase their acts of obedience and remain keen to please Him.
They also attend lectures to know further about matters of their religion, for Allah the Almighty prescribes religion and enjoins upon people to perform duties with the goal of enlightenment and attainment of clear and sound intellect. Indeed, the reason is one of the greatest Divine blessings, by virtue of which Man can acquire beneficial knowledge, establish good living and realise fine achievements. It is, therefore, a nation's wealth and a means to understand our religion as stated in this Aya: "verily, We have sent it down as an Arabic Quran in order that you may understand." (Yusuf: 2).
Our Lord sent Quran in Arabic so we can understand it, contemplate its meanings and extract its sciences and knowledge. All of these can only be possible through the use of sound intellect, which elevates thoughts and ideas.
Dear Servants of Allah,
Please know that sound reason has many characteristics, at the centre of which adopting moderate attitudes and avoiding extremist views. The Exalted is He says, "and thus we have made you a just community." (Al Baqara: 143).
As such, a just community is one that is sensible and is keen to achieve the highest interests with integrity and moderation. There must be no hard-line position as the Almighty says, "so remain on a right course as you have been commanded." (Hud: 112). That is, the individual must comply with religious precepts without excess or negligence. For his part, our Prophet pbuh warned us against excess in all its forms and called upon us to follow easiness and avoid strenuous viewpoints. He said, "facilitate things to people (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them and give them good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam)."
Please also know that moderate thinking results in bringing about stability, preserving nations from temptations and dangers, maintaining unity and cohesion, promoting tolerance and compassion, achieving peaceful coexistence and protecting lives, people's sanctity and wealth. Our Lord has ordered us to thank Him for these when He says, "let them worship the Lord of this House, Who has fed them, [saving them] from hunger and made them safe, [saving them] from fear." (Quraysh: 3-4).
Dear Worshippers,
There are many ways to consolidate moderate thought in society, namely by holding on to the tolerant teachings of Islam and its authentic civilisation, having pride in its high principles and following its moderate cultural values derived from Quran and Sunna. The Almighty says, "so adhere to that which is revealed to you. Indeed, you are on a straight path." (Azzukhruf: 43).
So whoever has grasped the most trustworthy handhold of Islam must demonstrate a sincere intention to Allah, the most Exalted. Similarly, he must explore all that may please Him by achieving only things that are fair and just, hence promoting moderate reasoning. Allah the Almighty praised those who seek the path of reason and follow it when He says, "who listen to speech and follow the best of it. Those are the ones Allah has guided, and those are people of understanding." (Azzumar: 18).
The people of understanding are open-minded and think soundly. They are modest and shun away from arrogance and conceit- a terrible scourge, which is against justice and favours hatred and contempt towards others.
It was reported that Umar ibn Al Khattab had written to Abu Musa Al Ashaari, may Allah rest their souls in peace, telling him that getting back to the right path is of utmost priority than going too far in the wrong way.
Thus it is incumbent on Muslims to follow all that is just, value highly the ordinance of Allah and never delve into things they do not know. The Almighty says, "and do not pursue that of which you have no knowledge. Indeed, the hearing, the sight and the heart - about all those [one] will be questioned." (Al Israa: 36).
O who fast,
Our Lord has ordered us to verify information and avoid rumours as mentioned in the following Aya: "O you who have believed, if there comes to you a disobedient one with information, investigate, lest you harm a people out of ignorance and become, over what you have done, regretful."  (Al Hujurat: 6). He also says, "and when there comes to them information about [public] security or fear, they spread it around. But if they had referred it back to the Messenger or to those of authority among them." (Annisaa: 83). This is to discredit whoever takes things for granted without investigation and spreads information, while they may be incorrect.
Indeed, staying away from rumours and gossip promotes moderate thought in the community, a responsibility shared by all. Thus, the household should be in charge of children by raising them correctly, raising their awareness, rationalising their emotions, guiding them to safe usage of modern technology and protecting them from alien thoughts. Teachers should also play a role in educating their students, providing them with beneficial knowledge and teaching them good morality and sound reasoning. Last but not least, scholars, intellectuals and media people should as well disseminate awareness and address misleading ideology, which is harmful to good reason and stability. This reflects what the Almighty has enjoined upon us in the following Aya: "and cooperate in righteousness and piety," (Al Maeda: 2).
So by working together we would stand as a strong shield against sorcery, superstition and the corrupt side of cultures. These are harmful to individuals and communities because they destroy stability and peace and spread evil and temptations.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah fill our hearts with faith and grant us good understanding and success. We also plead with You to help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the UAE has made great strides towards protecting moderate thought. For this purpose, it oversees the religious discourse such that it has upheld principles of moderation and tolerance, laid the foundation for peaceful coexistence, disseminating the sound knowledge, encouraged the advancement of education and learning and set a recognised religious authority to achieve Allah's instruction: "So ask the people of the message if you do not know." (Annahl: 43). Then every Muslim is invited to benefit from this enlightened religious reference.
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah bless us with sound reason, grant us well-being and let us meet Your satisfaction, O the Most Exalted.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is only an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic version.
 
 













