addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A symposium held by the General Authority of Islamic Affairs (Awqaf) warned the public against being misled by terrorist organisations, calls for jihad, migration and the so called "Caliphate in Iraq and the Levant" project as well as the attempts to attract Muslim youth through social media.
Awqaf condemned also the suicide operations or as they are called "martyrdom operations" by Muslim Brotherhood ideologists. Participants stressed that works by Sayed Qutb and the testimony of Yusuf al-Qaradawi exudes with Takfir (atonement), who was the first to talk about the concept of Al Hakimiya, or the dominion of Allah, using it as a ground to declare members of the society are not believers.
The seminar warned against killing people in the name of religion insisting that jihad is the exclusive competence of the ruler and said there is no basis for Daesh's and similar groups' claim to modern Caliphate. Therefore, all of the arguments they put forth are weak and flimsy.
Awqaf Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, welcomed the scholars- guests of HH the UAE President and stated that the symposium aimed at promoting principles of moderation, especially at this critical period of time where strife and sectarianism and terrorism voices abound worldwide. He explained that extremist groups had hijacked religion by claiming that they had established a state of Islam, calling Muslims to disobey rulers and issuing Fatwas that allow atonement and attacks against anyone, younger or elder, who rejects their deviation and opposes to their extremism.
Dr al Kaabi added that entities concerned with religion should take initiatives and lead efforts to restore religious discourse from those extremists and highlight further the pure essence of Islam.
He further explained that Awqaf was implementing the strategies of the UAE wise leadership aiming at achieving a safe and cohesive society, one that preserves its identity and whose members are loyal to their rulers and nation.  It does this, he said, by implementing religious activities that consolidate moderation, promoting human relations with non-Muslims, achieving social and intellectual safety and protecting the UAE society from destructive ideology, which contradicts the noble Islamic values.
In his speech, he mentioned that Awqaf wished the participants in the symposium would come out with practical ideas to encounter radicals, who lure young people into the quagmire of terrorism and crime in the name of Islam, the religion of peace and mercy.
 













