addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, he Bestower of favours and blessings. He grants us with the last ten (nights) of Ramadan. I bear witness there is no deity but Him, having no partners.
I also testify that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. He is the best of servants who prayed and fasted. 
May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, the Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (Annahl: 128).
Allah also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
O who fast,
You are blessed with fasting the month of Ramadan which Allah prefers it over other months. Also congratulations to you for fasting and observing Qiyam (late night prayers). These days are further preferred over other days; their days are blessings and nights a cause of forgiveness. They are the best time for fasting people to strive diligently and compete for the best rewards.
Our prophet pbuh used to strive hard in the last ten of Ramadan more than in any other times. He would pray at night and wake up his family for prayer because the Night of Decree falls in one of those nights. And because it was the night of revealing the Quran to the Seal of Prophets, Allah the Almighty has elevated its status. The Almighty says, "indeed, We sent it down during the Night of Decree" (Al Qadr: 1).
It has been described as a blessed night thanks to the blessings Allah grants His servants in it. The Exalted is He says, "indeed, We sent it down during a blessed night. Indeed, We were to warn [mankind]." (Addukhan: 3).
The Almighty attributed to it many merits. In it, He decrees people's lots and provisions for the next year as illustrated in this Aya: "In that night is made distinct every precise matter." (Addukhan: 4). Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, reported that in this night all of the occurrences of the year, including birth, death, provision, rain and even Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) are to be  recorded in the Allawh Al Mahfoudh (the Preserved Slate). Therefore, it is worthwhile to pray to Allah, asking good things for ourselves, own family, nation and rulers.
Dear Worshippers,
Our Lord has honoured the Night of Decree by devoting a whole Surah in the Quran for it wherein He showed its merits, goodness and virtues. He says, "the Night of Decree is better than a thousand months." (Al Qadr: 3). At this blessed night, the goodness, which is unlike anything else, is awarded and doing good in it is better than that of a thousand months. That is, it is better than eighty three years.
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said, "Ramadan began, and the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, 'this month has come to you, and in it there is a night that is better than a thousand months. Whoever is deprived of it is deprived of all goodness, and no one is deprived of its goodness except one who is truly deprived'."
Knowing this, it is obligatory to seek doing good, seize this opportunity to engage further in acts of worship, value highly what Allah's has valued, strive hard in a night in which, by Allah's favour, prayers are accepted, ranks are raised, and previous sins are forgiven. In this regard, our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever spends the night of Laylat Al Qadr in prayer out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins."
Allah the Almighty raised its status further because He chose it as a time for angels to descend to earth. On this matter, He says, "the angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter." (Al Qadr: 4). In its interpretation,  Surat Al Qadr  reports the descent of the angels from Sudrat al Muntaha (Lote tree- that marks the end of the seventh heaven amid of which lies Jibreel's dwelling). They came to earth to say Amin following people's supplications and prayers until dawn sits in. Allah has made it a night of peace and tranquillity as He says, "peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al Qadr: 5)
Dear Muslims,
Please remember that our Prophet pbuh urged us to seek it when he says, "seek it (Laylat Al Qadr) in the last (ten nights)." This can be possible through good work and prayers. Truly saying prayers is a great act of worship such that it reflects meanings of submission and reverence.
So congratulations to those who supplicate sincerely to their Lord, see their prayers accepted and receive Allah's bounties. The Almighty Allah is close to those who pray to Him and listen to who invoke him. He says, "and when My servants ask you, [O Muhammad], concerning Me - indeed I am near. I respond to the invocation of the supplicant when he calls upon Me. So let them respond to Me [by obedience] and believe in Me that they may be [rightly] guided." (Al Baqara: 186).
For their part, the Prophet's Companions used to strive during these days and nights by performing Qiyam, reading Quran and praying to Allah.
Sayida Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, reported: "I asked: 'O Messenger of Allah! If I realize Laylat Al Qadr, what should I supplicate in it?' He pbuh replied, 'you should supplicate: Allahumma innaka aafuwwun, tuhibbul-aafwa, faafu aanni (O Allah, You are the Most Forgiving, and You love forgiveness; so forgive me)."
Glad tidings to those engaging diligently in acts of obedience, including Dhikr, prayers, Quran recitation and alms-giving, hence they seize the merits of Laylat Al Qadr. Those are the winners and may Allah bless their efforts and make their scale of good deeds heavier.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah help us observe Qiyam in the last ten of Ramadan and grant us the blessing and the reward of witnessing Laylat Al Qadr. May Allah accept our fast, prayers and good deeds and help us obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that Zakat Al Fitr is compulsory on every Muslim, male and female, young or old. It is purification for the fasting person and an act of sympathy with the poor. Its measure is one Saa of the main staple food in the community, approximately two Kilograms. The Muslim must offer it one or two days before Eid prayer, on his behalf and on behalf of his dependents. Scholars also allow it to be paid out in cash and it is evaluated in UAE at 20 Dirhams per person.
Dear Servants of Allah,
It is highly recommended for Muslims before leaving home for the Eid prayer to take a bath and dress up well. Ibn Umar, may Allah be pleased with him, used to wash himself on the Eid day before going out to Musallah. It is also of Sunna to eat some dates, three or five pieces, at odd numbers, as did the Prophet pbuh. Further men are invited to do Takbir in Jahr (slightly loud), while women utter it in Sir (silently).
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, You are the most Forgiving, and You love forgiveness; so forgive me. O Allah grant us the goodness of Laylat Al Qadr and a joyful conclusion of Ramadan. O Allah bless for us its remaining days and guide us to do whatever may please You.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













