addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. We thank Him for the blessings of Islam, His guidance and faith in Him and all of His unlimited bounties. We seek refuge with our Lord from temptations, either apparent or hidden.
I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates, and testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, the Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will [then] give you a double portion of His mercy and make for you a light by which you will walk and forgive you; and Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (Al Hadid: 28).                                     
Dear Believers,
Allah's favours upon us are limitless, the noblest of which are the special seasons of worship that Allah dedicates for raising His servants' ranks and forgiving their wrongdoings. At these favourite times, Muslims engage themselves in reading Quran and follow its rules. Our Prophet pbuh said, "O Hudhaifa, recite the Book of Allah and work in accordance with its precepts."
Allah's blessings increase when people enjoy stability in their nations as they can pray to Allah safely and live in tranquillity. Let us be grateful then to our Lord for all the gifts He has granted us and ask Him to protect us from evil and temptations. This is because the earthly life is a test and a source of turmoil for everyone, whether he does good or bad.  In this regard, our Prophet warned us to avoid falling into fatal temptations when he said, "there will be afflictions (in the near future) during which a sitting person will be better than a standing one, and the standing one will be better than a walking one, and the walking one will be better than a running one, and whoever will expose himself to these afflictions, they will destroy him. So whoever can find a place of protection or refuge from them, should take shelter in it."
Our Prophet pbuh used to seek refuge with Allah from the evils of temptation and order his Companions to do the same. He said, "seek refuge with Allah from turmoil, its visible and invisible (aspects)." And the most tense of these is when the individual is tempted in his faith, risking his relation with his Lord and causing himself to fall into delusion after guidance and consequently pursue paths of extremism and aberration.
Our Prophet pbuh also used to pray to Allah to grant him the pleasure of meeting Him away from any misguiding turmoil. Thus, he would say, "O Alah, I ask You for the sweetness of looking upon Your face and a longing to meet You in a manner that does not entail a calamity that will bring about harm or a trial that will cause deviation." Another known Duaa by him (pbuh) was: "O Allah, do not make our affliction in our religion."
That is mentioned because all aspects of strife pose serious threats to minds and hearts. They cause the patient confusion and bring in antagonists to strive against each other. In fact many men have been misled by temptations and ideologies leading them to do harm, only because of their wrong and evil attitudes.
This is made clear in the following Hadith: "Temptations will be presented to men's hearts as reed mat is woven stick by stick and any heart which is impregnated by them will have a black mark put into it, but any heart which rejects them will have a white mark put in it. The result is that there will become two types of hearts: one white like a white stone which will not be harmed by any turmoil or temptation, so long as the heavens and the earth endure; and the other black and dust-coloured like a vessel which is upset, not recognising what is good or rejecting what is abominable, but being impregnated with passion."
Qadi Ayyad said that likening the heart with the smooth white stone is an indication of one's sincere faith and integrity, meaning the aspects of turmoil have failed to affect him. On the other hand, he described the heart, which is not aware of good, as a tilted pot that can never contain water still.
Dear Worshippers,
Islam has called upon us to follow the right path and forbidden us to delve into ways leading to adversity. As such, our Lord would like to preserve for us our religion and life and guide us to safety and infallibility. The Almighty says, "and, [moreover], this is My path, which is straight, so follow it; and do not follow [other] ways, for you will be separated from His way. This has He instructed you that you may become righteous." (Al Anaam: 153).
One way to avoid temptations is to reflect on the meanings and teachings of Quran wherein to find guidance, relief, infallibility and consistency. In this regard, the Exalted is He says, "then do they not reflect upon the Quran? If it had been from [any] other than Allah , they would have found within it much contradiction. And when there comes to them information about [public] security or fear, they spread it around. But if they had referred it back to the Messenger or to those of authority among them, then the ones who [can] draw correct conclusions from it would have known about it. And if not for the favour of Allah upon you and His mercy, you would have followed Satan, except for a few." (Al Anaam: 82-83).
These Ayas describe those who circulate rumours and lies and order us to return matters and issues to the ruler because he is more knowledgeable about their rules and how to address them. In so doing, temptations can be subdued and chaos can be prevented. That is why our Lord instructed us to obey the ruler and those in charge with authority amongst us. He said, "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
Please know that following the moderate principles of Islam and the Sunna of our Prophet pbuh based on sound knowledge and reasoning is a safety of all temptations and protection from every wrongdoing.  Allah the most Exalted says, "O you who have believed, respond to Allah and to the Messenger when he calls you to that which gives you life. And know that Allah intervenes between a man and his heart and that to Him you will be gathered. And fear a trial which will not strike those who have wronged among you exclusively, and know that Allah is severe in penalty." (Al Anfal: 24-25).
Please know also that awareness is a beacon for sensible thinking and a protection for minds. As such any nation that has promoted science and knowledge shall assume highest ranks and see its members protected and its future flourished. However, those, who violate the teachings of Islam and follow extremist ideologies, are in fact pursuing the ways of sedition. Allah says, "so let those beware who dissent from the Prophet's order, lest fitnah strike them or a painful punishment." (Annur: 63).
Dear Muslims,
When temptation strikes, it is like the current which drags everything in its passage. On this matter, Hudhaifa, may Allah rest his soul in peace, said, "beware of strife, for anyone, who is drawn to it, will be destroyed the way the torrent sweeps away small particles on its course."
Thus, only those with firm roots and faith, good morality and enlightened education can survive. And here lies the role of parents in educating their sons and daughters by instilling in them the principles of moderation and the love for the nation. Indeed, our Lord has blessed us with this country of abundant provisions, so let us praise Him for such blessings and let us protect them. This will enhance national and community cohesion and prevent temptations. Our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever wants the best place in Paradise, then let him stick to the Jamaah." The best place means the middle of the Paradise.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to preserve our nation from all temptations, both apparent and hidden. May Allah help us to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey.
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that only people of knowledge know and can decide whether something is a temptation or not. Therefore, Muslims must hold fast unto Allah and rally around the leader, hence ensuring the unity of the nation and raising its rank higher. These are ways to prevent turmoil and are factors conducive to enjoying blessings and stability as well as living peacefully and moving forward on the path of progress and prosperity. The Prophet pbuh said, "the happy man is he who avoids dissensions."
Indeed, it is a great thing to obey Allah, His Messenger and the ruler, work diligently for the sake of the nation and pray to Allah to preserve it and confer on it continuing progress.
Please bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













