addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He ordered us to venerate His Messengers and show respect to His rituals. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. He says, "the Messenger has believed in what was revealed to him from his Lord, and [so have] the believers. All of them have believed in Allah and His angels and His Books and His messengers." (Al Baqara: 285). I also testify that Muhammad is Allah's Servant and Messenger who said, "the prophets are paternal brothers; their mothers are different, but their religion is one."
With him pbuh, Allah the Almighty completed the religion and sealed the Prophetic messages. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book as He says: "O you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will [then] give you a double portion of His mercy and make for you a light by which you will walk and forgive you; and Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (Al Hadid: 28).
Dear Muslims,
Our Lord sent His Messengers to bring out people from darkness into the light and spread goodness and peace as well as love and compassion amongst them. Every Messenger came to complete what his predecessor began and built up on what had been achieved. For example, the Prophet of Allah Isa (Jesus) complemented the message of Musa (Moses), peace be upon them. The Almighty says, "and We sent, following in their footsteps, Jesus, the son of Mary, confirming that which came before him in the Torah; and We gave him the Gospel, in which was guidance and light and confirming that which preceded it of the Torah as guidance and instruction for the righteous." (Al Maeda: 46).
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh was sent to continue this mission of guidance further. Allah says, "Muhammad is not the father of [any] one of your men, but [he is] the Messenger of Allah and last of the prophets. And ever is Allah, of all things, Knowing." (Al Ahzab: 40). Thus he pbuh completed the heavenly messages and laid down the rules for respecting and appreciating them.
On this matter, Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "my similitude in comparison with the other prophets before me, is that of a man who has built a house nicely and beautifully, except for a place of one brick in a corner. The people go about it and wonder at its beauty, but say, 'Would that this brick be put in its place!' So I am that brick, and I am the last of the Prophets."
He pbuh believed in Books sent by Allah to other Messengers before him. Isa pbuh informed his people about the arrival of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he said, "O children of Israel, indeed I am the messenger of Allah to you confirming what came before me of the Torah and bringing good tidings of a messenger to come after me, whose name is Ahmad." (Assaf: 6). The Prophet Muhammad pbuh, was instructed to believe in what is in the Book sent to him as mentioned here: "but say, "I have believed in what Allah has revealed of the Quran." (As-Shura: 15).
The most Exalted is He says that Quran came to confirm what was mentioned in the Gospel: "And We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], the Book in truth, confirming that which preceded it of the Scripture and as a criterion over it." (Al Maeda:48). Our Lord also ordered us to believe in all of His Books and Messengers as He says, "say, [O believers], "We have believed in Allah and what has been revealed to us and what has been revealed to Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob and the Descendants and what was given to Moses and Jesus and what was given to the prophets from their Lord. We make no distinction between any of them, and we are Muslims [in submission] to Him." (Al Baqara: 136).
 At the same time, He banned us from making distinction between His Messengers and Apostles as He says, "We make no distinction between any of His messengers." (Al Baqara: 285). For his part, the Prophet pbuh says, "don't give superiority to any prophet amongst Allah's Prophets."
Dear Servants of Allah,
The holy Quran underlines fine human relations based on the goodly word, purposeful dialogue, good treatment and kind forgiveness. It is also promoting means that achieve peace and harmony, and is calling for staying away from causes of hatred and strife. The aim is to ensure stability and prosperity and to reinforce positive communication amongst people and civilisations. Our Lord says, "We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another." (Al Hujurat: 13).
In light of what has been said, the anti-discrimination law has been issued as an evident response to the call of all heavenly religions aiming at preserving the human dignity and rights. It is also meant to maintain sanctities, which Islam has called for their protection from any potential aggressor or disdainful person.
As it is known that Allah may deter the aggressors through the power of Authority more than He may through Quran, the Ruler is in the position to intervene to prevent people from committing sins in a way that is more efficiently. Here the law acts as a deterrent agent against anyone who may venture to insult Allah. The Almighty describes His highest and unique status saying, "that is Allah, your Lord; there is no deity except Him, the Creator of all things, so worship Him. And He is Disposer of all things. Vision perceives Him not, but He perceives [all] vision; and He is the Subtle, the Acquainted." (Al Anaam: 102-103).
The law also stipulates stringent penalties against anyone who offends other religions, their rituals and sacred places, or abuses any heavenly Books through any acts of distortion, destruction or disrespect. Moreover, the law came also to prohibit any act that would be considered as insulting or ridiculing Prophets and Apostles, their wives, their families and companions. Further, it criminalises any act that would be considered as insulting or bringing damage to houses of worship or graveyards, including their content or accessories.
In fact, the law provisions honour Allah's ordinances, rituals and sanctities in accordance with what He says, "that [has been commanded], and whoever honours the sacred ordinances of Allah - it is best for him in the sight of his Lord." (Al Haj: 30).
Dear Worshippers,
On another note, the anti-discrimination law highlights the pioneering role of the UAE in preserving public interests and freedoms. It reflects the aspects of progress and civilisations the country enjoys under its judicious leadership. Such is seen in terms of religious coexistence, protection of the special status of the heavenly Books, Prophets and Companions.
These principles are embraced by UAE in accordance to a culture of moderation based on dialogue and wisdom rather than intolerance or disorder. Therefore, the law shall uphold further such high values and ideals as justice and orderly freedom and show the true side of our religion. In fact, Islam came to defend interests, fend off evil, protect necessities and eventually achieve goodness and happiness for all humanity.
Dear Muslims,
Please be aware that this law has been issued in the right time with the goal of enhancing social cohesion and strengthening the principles of moderation, peaceful coexistence and tolerance. This provides a sound foundation for the environment of continuing progress and acculturation. It sends a universal message for fighting discrimination and feud, containing extremism, discarding seeds of violence and fanaticism and preserving the rights of all without prejudice on the basis of religion, creed, doctrine or race.
Equally, it calls for respecting others and treating them well, criminalises hate speech, alienation, extremism and punishes anyone for naming other religious groups or individuals as infidels, or unbelievers. Moreover, it summons all members of the community to protect the sound culture of moderation as our Lord says in this regard, "and thus we have made you a just community." (Al Baqara: 143).
Further, its rules reflect the essence of our tolerant religion and are in line with our high interests. They would allow us to benefit from a range of advantages like preserving the individual and community's interests, protecting the national unity, barring temptations, drying up sources of extremism and criminalising its financing.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah guide us to be respectful of and forgiving to each other. May Allah help us to follow the right path and help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that UAE stands always by just causes and answers the call of their people. Accordingly, its response to the appeal for help by the brotherly Yemeni people is dictated by shared principles of humanity and Islamic texts. These make it mandatory for a Muslim to take action in defending the oppressed, victims of armed assaults, against the oppressor if the latter has not been deterred, and so continues to transgress Allah and His Messenger's borders. It was reported by Al Baraa bin Azib, may Allah be pleased with him, said that Allah's Messenger pbuh commanded us to observe seven things... one of which is to help the oppressed."
For this purpose, our blessed nation has sacrificed money and loved ones, who welcomed the death whole-heartedly in defence of justice. They did so to support those in need, solidify the foundations of justice and preserve the stability of the homeland and people's capabilities from those who have done wrong. Our Prophet pbuh said, "whoever rebels against my Ummah, killing good and evil people alike, and does not try to avoid killing the believers, and does not pay attention to those who are under a covenant, then he has nothing to do with me and I have nothing to do with him."
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, make us amongst those who honour your rituals, respect the rights of Your Servants. O Allah guide us to Your right path, and help us always to love doing goodness and promote harmony, O the most Exalted.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom You have bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













