addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Many endowment projects by Awqaf are in the pipeline, including the first kidney dialysis centre in Umm Al Quwain destined to serve patients from the Northern Emirates, have been announced.
 In an interview with the national newspaper Al Bayan, Mr Khaled al Niadi, the executive director for endowments affairs, said that Awqaf is poised to survey empty lands and non-invested areas across UAE with the goal of establishing buildings and shopping centres. This is expected to increase the real estate units, correct the irregularities seen in some places and add an aesthetic value that reflects the special status of UAE.
Mr al Niadi also spoke about the UAE experience in Islamic endowments saying that the country had achieved a great leap towards developing various channels and products. He explained that endowments moved from a traditional basic form of activity to a modern one.
"While in the past, it  was a mere system for receiving and maintaining deposits and then spend them, now it turned into an industry and huge investment channel exceeding AED 2 bn.  This has contributed to the national economy and comprehensive development for the good of the community. However, the endowment investment is determined by conditions set by the donor," he said.
Mr al Niadi added that Awqaf is committed to changing the concept of "Waqf industry" to restore its vital role in many areas of development, such as culture, education and health as well as in efforts aiming at protecting widows, orphans, the afflicted and the needy.
The kidney dialysis centre in Umm Al Quwain will be financed by revenues from other endowment projects managed by Awqaf and will be fitted with modern equipment and latest technologies in the field, Mr Al Niadi said.
Awqaf also sponsors education through partnership with local companies and entities to help needy students with their school fees all over the country. Mr al Niadi stressed that this move would consolidate the sense of belonging amongst students and raise awareness of what is expected from them and motivate them to be innovative. It is also part of Awqaf's efforts to contribute to the educational sector by offering an optimal atmosphere for students to pursue their studies comfortably.
A further social initiative brings Awqaf together with other concerned entities to help divorced women and widows to marry again. Mr al Niadi explained that Awqaf would take charge of financial cost to help this segment of society start a new family life, indicating that this move would help solve marriage problems amongst widows and divorced women and promote values of solidarity and cohesion within society.
About the procedures undertaken so far, Mr al Niadi mentioned that Awqaf had contacted local associations and other stakeholders to nominate participants, only amongst women who had been married before. At the same time, prospective husbands should be motivated by their life experience to ensure a successful union in the future
On another note, he pointed out that Awqaf had diversified donation methods, including the collection boxes for donations in kind, which have been placed near shopping centres, cooperatives and government departments in all Emirates. To retrieve collection of such items like clothes, women bags, shoes and electronic devices, Awqaf contracted a specialised company and formed follow-up committees. Donations are treated as endowments, he said.
Mr al Niadi announced also that Awqaf had plans to increase annual revenues from endowment assets by four times. This, he said, will be a challenge added to the remarkable transformation in the endowment system by making it a third economic sector to assist overall development and investment.
According to the Cabinet decision no 6 of 2010 concerning disbursement channels of endowment revenues, eight types of channels were identified: Islamic affairs, learning and education, health, orphans and the poor, righteousness and piety, donor's family and offspring, social welfare and community service in addition to channels as approved by Awqaf board of directors.
 













