addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He encompasses His creation with compassion and Divine care. If He tests them it is out of His wisdom and mercy and when he cures them, it is out of His grace and blessing. I bear witness that there is no deity worthy of worship, except for Allah alone without any partners or peers
I also witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is the Best of His Creation, the Closest to Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him as He says, "and whoever fears Allah - He will remove for him his misdeeds and make great for him his reward." (Attalaq: 5).
Dear Muslims,
The Almighty has made this life one of trials and He decreed in it afflictions and ease, good and bad times. Our Lord says, "and We test you with evil and with good as trial; and to Us you will be returned." (Al Anbiyaa: 35). That is, people will sometimes face hardship and sometimes good fortunes.
Illness is one of the life tests to which Muslims should call on their faith to be patient and remain steadfast in accordance with what Allah says, "indeed, the patient will be given their reward without account." (Azzumar: 10). Reward here refers to Paradise.
The faithful should know that if Allah afflicts him, this is out of His love and he shall be rewarded accordingly. Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "the greatest reward comes with the greatest trial. When Allah loves a people He tests them. Whoever accepts that wins His pleasure but whoever is discontent with that earns His wrath."
Because Allah wanted for His believer a status that he could not reach with his deeds alone, He tests him to achieve it. So our religion has urged those who are ill to stay patient and promised them forgiveness. Our Prophet pbuh said, "no Muslim is afflicted with any harm, even if it were the prick of a thorn, but that Allah expiates his sins because of that, as a tree sheds its leaves."
Dear Servants of Allah,
In Islam, the sick persons receive utmost care as they have rights over other Muslims, including the right to visit them. The Prophet pbuh says, "every Muslim has five rights over another Muslim (i.e., he has to perform five duties for another Muslim): to return the greetings, to visit the sick, to accompany funeral processions, to accept an invitation, to respond to the sneezer [i.e., to say: 'Yarhamuk Allah (may Allah bestow His Mercy on you),' when the sneezer praises Allah]. "
Visiting patients has great rewards as the Prophet pbuh said, "Allah (mighty and sublime be He) will say on the Day of Resurrection, 'O son of Adam, I fell ill and you visited Me not.' He will say, 'O Lord, and how should I visit You when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say, 'did you not know that My servant so-and-so had fallen ill and you visited him not? Did you not know that had you visited him you would have found Me with him?" The statement: "you would have found Me with him" means you will receive my reward and love.
Visiting patients is also an act of charity for who does it, as our Prophet pbuh said, "every act of goodness is (considered as) Sadaqa."
Those who visit sick people can value the merit of health and appreciate what Allah has blessed them with. Thus they should praise their Lord for granting them good health. The Prophet pbuh said, "two blessings which many people squander: Good health and free time." It was said that health is a crown on the head of healthy people which is seen only by those who are ill.
Furthermore, visiting the sick person invites angels to pray for his visitors as the Prophet pbuh says, "whoever visits the sick, or visits his brother in Allah (faith), a caller calls out: 'May you have goodness and livelihood be good, and may you dwell in an adobe in Paradise. "
Visiting a patient and praying for him to recover is a source of comfort for him, letting him renew hope and feel more positive. We can say as the Prophet pbuh would say, "O Allah! The Lord of the people, the Remover of trouble! (Please) cure (Heal) (this patient), for You are the Healer. None brings about healing but You; a healing that will leave behind no ailment. "
The Messenger of Allah pbuh visited Saad Abu Waqqas during his illness and supplicated, "O Allah! Cure Saad. O Allah! Cure Saad. O Allah! Cure Saad." And when he went to see a patient, he would say, "no harm, (it will be a) purification (from sins), if Allah wills."
Dear Worshippers,
While visiting patients, it is good to remind them of accepting destiny, being patient and seeking recompense from Allah the most Exalted. It is also desirable to remind them of stories of Prophets and the righteous people, who suffered from affliction, and advise them to come closer to Allah by doing good work, giving charity, increasing prayers and having sincere faith in Him. Indeed Allah who cures as the Prophet Ibrahim pbuh said, "and when I am ill, it is He who cures me." (As-Shuaraa: 80).
Last but not least, the patient has the right over us to help him if he needs so. We have to do our best to assist him by offering conditions conducive to his recovery like donating blood or other forms of help. This is the sort of solidarity which our Lord has urged us to undertake. Our Prophet pbuh expressed this in the following Hadith: "the similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever."
Bearing this in mind, may Allah heal the sick amongst us and let us enjoy our hearing, and our seeing, and our strength as long as You keep us alive. May Allah help us to follow the right path and help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that fulfilling patient's rights is a high human value that reflects the solidarity of the community and cohesion. It promotes harmony, charity, compassion amongst people and eventually earns people the great reward of Paradise. Our Prophet pbuh said, "verily, when a Muslim visits his brother in Islam he is supposed to remain in the fruit garden of Paradise until he returns".
From this perspective, the United Arab Emirates has always been keen to take care of its patients and provide healthcare by building hospitals, medical centres and clinics and facilitating access to health services. In doing this, it attracted world class experts and applied the best practice standards in order to meet people's needs.
Dear Muslims,
Kindly, bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication".
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.
O Allah grant our patients wellness and rewards, O Possessor of Majesty and Honour.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













