addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the most Generous. He ensures provision for all. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him as He says, "and whoever fears Allah - He will make for him a way out and will provide for him from where he does not expect. And whoever relies upon Allah - then He is sufficient for him." (Attalaq: 2-3).
Allah also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Our Lord is the Creator of the universe and the Guarantor of provision for all Creation. He says, "and there is no creature on earth but that upon Allah is its provision, and He knows its place of dwelling and place of storage. All is in a clear register." (Hud: 6). Allah alone is the Sustainer as He confirms it here: "Indeed, it is Allah who is the [continual] Provider, the firm possessor of strength." (Adhariyat: 58). One's livelihood is, therefore, decreed and determined with man should only seek the appropriate means to obtain it. Yet, he should remain pious to his Creator for this is the key to all that is good. The Almighty says, "and if only the people of the cities had believed and feared Allah, We would have opened upon them blessings from the heaven and the earth." (Al Araf: 96). That is, had they had faith in Allah and His Messenger pbuh, obeyed Him as ordered them to do and avoided what He made prohibitions for them, He would have bestowed upon them plentiful blessings, stability and safety.
In order to benefit from blessings in this world and enjoy happiness in the Hereafter, we must observe acts of worship and be honest in dealing with people. In so doing, we give chance to our provision to grow and prosper. The most Exalted is He says, "and [Allah revealed] that if they had remained straight on the way, We would have given them abundant provision."(Al Jinn: 16). This means if they stayed committed to the right path, faith and guidance, and remained obedient believers, Allah would have granted them greater portion of provision and made it easier for them in this life.
One way to maintain provision and expand it is to give charity. In the Quran, the Prophet Yusuf pbuh's brothers were mentioned as saying, "indeed, Allah rewards the charitable." (Yusuf: 88). In this Aya, Allah's promises the generous people recompense in the Hereafter and abundant provision in this life. He will bless them and compensate them what they have spent many folds. In the same regard, He says "but whatever thing you spend [in His cause] - He will compensate it; and He is the best of providers." (Sabaa: 39). As such, charity increases one's wealth. Our Prophet pbuh explained that when someone spends, Allah the most Exalted rewards him, adding that Allah is the most Provider, Who will never cease to give abundantly.
This is a promise and a great assurance from Allah the most Compassionate to His Servants. Our Prophet pbuh put an emphasis on this fact when He said, "there are three things for which I swear and narrate to you about, so remember it. [among which he mentioned] the wealth of a slave (of Allah) shall not be decreased by charity." So if you desire to expand your sustenance you should never forget the weak and the needy.
Dear Worshippers,
Honouring ties of kinship is another way to receive and increase blessings. Our Prophet pbuh said, "he who is desirous that his means of sustenance should be expanded for him or his age may be lengthened, should join the tie of relationship." Expanding one's sustenance comes in the sense of receiving more blessings because observing ties of kinship is a form of charity, which makes money grow. Lengthening age means the person will be well-remembered. Therefore, anyone who treats nicely his parents and observes his blood ties shall see his provision and age blessed.
Also, persevering in praying to Allah for forgiveness and repentance shall bring more provision as evidenced in the following Aya: "And O my people, ask forgiveness of your Lord and then repent to Him. He will send [rain from] the sky upon you in showers and increase you in strength [added] to your strength. " (Hud: 52).
Rain is an indication of livelihood as it was further stressed by Umar ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him when he said, "wherever there is water, there is wealth."
Likewise, Allah says quoting His Messenger Nuh (Noah) pbuh, "and said, 'Ask forgiveness of your Lord. Indeed, He is ever a Perpetual Forgiver. He will send [rain from] the sky upon you in [continuing] showers and give you increase in wealth and children and provide for you gardens and provide for you rivers." (Nuh: 10-12). That is, if people repent, ask forgiveness and obey their Lord, they shall, by His grace, receive greater livelihood and the privilege of money and progeny.
Furthermore, putting faith in Allah alone is a cause for expanding provision as the Almighty says, "and whoever relies upon Allah - then He is sufficient for him." (Attalaq: 3). In the interpretation of this Aya, a scholar said anyone who relies on Allah, He will remove his concerns and bless him.
Last but not least, excelling in performing duties and developing expertise together with reliance upon Allah maintain and increase one's provision.
Bearing this in mind, may Allah bless what you have offered us. May Allah help us to follow the right path and help us  also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey in compliance with Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Allah, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that thanking Him for the sustenance He has bestowed upon us shall ensure its continuity. The Almighty says, "and [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, 'If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favour]." (Ibrahim: 7).
So anyone who is grateful to Allah will receive appreciation from Him as He says: "Allah is Forgiving and Appreciative." (As-Shura: 23). This Aya emphasises that the Almighty pardons people's wrongdoings, admires good work and increases reward.
Thus, those amongst us who thank Allah shall see their livelihood flourished and their family blessed, only to be overwhelmed by happiness and satisfaction. Our Prophet pbuh said, "indeed, Allah The Most Vast in sustenance and the Exalted, will try each of His servants with the sustenance He has bestowed upon them. Whoever pleased with Allah the Almighty's division, Allah will bless and expand that sustenance for him. And whoever displeased (dissatisfied), his sustenance will not be blessed."
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah bless us and expand for us our provision, O the most Exalted.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 
 













