addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He elects amongst His servants those who fight in His cause and martyrs as He wills. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imran: 200).
Dear Muslims,
Islam calls for peace and stability, good and harmony. At the same time, it warns against abusers and criminals, who spoil people's life and attack innocent people in their home countries, and orders addressing their aggression by defeating them. The Almighty says, "so whoever has assaulted you, then assault him in the same way that he has assaulted you. And fear Allah and know that Allah is with those who fear Him." (Al Baqara: 194).
For his part, our Prophet pbuh instructed us to counter the aggressors in order to spare people their harm.  Allah's Messenger pbuh said, "help your brother whether he is an oppressor or an oppressed," A man said, "O Allah's Messenger! I will help him if he is oppressed, but if he is an oppressor, how shall I help him?" The Prophet pbuh said, "by preventing him from oppressing (others), for that is how to help him."
However, only the Ruler is entitled to take such a decision and must be obeyed thereof. This is mostly required at times of crisis when there is a clear need for deterring the oppressor, for this shall bring benefits, ward off evils, and lay firm foundations for rights and justice. Our Guide Muhammad pbuh said, "a commander (of the Muslims) is a shield for them. They fight behind him and they are protected by (him from tyrants and aggressors)."
That is, his opinion regarding serious matters and incidents should be followed and by no means shall anyone else's override his own.
Truly congratulations to those who answers the call of duty by defending their homeland and providing assistance to their brothers. As promised by their Lord, they shall receive the great reward in return for them standing firm fighting for His sake. Our Prophet pbuh said, "(Ribat) Guarding the frontier for a day in the cause of Allah is better than the world and what is in it."
He pbuh also said "the dust in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in the lungs of a servant, and the stinginess and faith can never be combined in a servant's heart." And any harm that may befall a believer, while stationed in the way of Allah, but to bring him nearer to Allah and increase his honour. Our Prophet pbuh said, "by Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, if a person is wounded in the way of Allah, he will come on the Day of Resurrection with his wound in the same condition as it was on the day when he received it; its colour will be the colour of blood but its smell will be the smell of musk."
Dear Worshippers,
Obtaining martyrdom in the cause of Allah while defending nations is a great honour from Allah to whom He wills. The Almighty says, "Allah may make evident those who believe and [may] take to Himself from among you martyrs." (Al Imran: 140). This means Allah the most Exalted gives the privilege of martyrdom to those He wants.
Because their status is high, they are depicted as alive with their Lord, enjoying His bounties upon them as mentioned in the following Ayas: "and never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision, rejoicing in what Allah has bestowed upon them of His bounty, and they receive good tidings about those [to be martyred] after them who have not yet joined them - that there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve." (Al Imrarn: 169-170).
Indeed, blessed are the righteous people of this nation, who joined up with the pure martyrs and who are promised the ultimate recompense of Paradise. Our Prophet pbuh said, "the deeds of everyone who dies are sealed. Except for the one who dies guarding the frontier from the enemy, in the cause of Allah. For indeed his actions are increased for him until the Day of Judgement, and he is secure from the tribulation of the grave."
The grace of martyrdom is not limited to the martyr only, it also benefits his family and relatives. The Prophet pbuh said, "the martyr has six things (in store) with Allah: He is forgiven from the first drop of his blood that is shed; he is shown his place in Paradise; he is spared the torment of the grave; he is kept safe from the Great Fright; he is adorned with a garment of faith; he is married to (wives) from among the wide-eyed houris; and he is permitted to intercede for seventy of his relatives."
Martyrs' families should, therefore, be content and patient. This is because Muslims have to endure life trials and strengthen their resolve further. The Almighty says regarding the reward reserved for people with strong fortitude, "and We will surely test you with something of fear and hunger and a loss of wealth and lives and fruits, but give good tidings to the patient, who, when disaster strikes them, say, "Indeed we belong to Allah, and indeed to Him we will return." Those are the ones upon whom are blessings from their Lord and mercy. And it is those who are the [rightly] guided." (Al Baqara: 155-157)
This is a magnificent tribute to patients who keep high hope in Allah, accept destiny and know that anything, whether it is beneficial or harmful, is at Allah's command. Thus, they rush to fulfil obligations incumbent on them diligently, in full compliance with the Aya saying: "Say, "Never will we be struck except by what Allah has decreed for us; He is our protector." And upon Allah let the believers rely." (Attawba: 51).
Knowing this, we entreat Allah the Almighty to have mercy on the UAE's martyrs, protect its soldiers, and grant us certitude and the sincere trust in Him. May Allah help us to follow the right path and help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the UAE's brave armed forces are our stronghold fort, our solid shield and our source of pride. They have answered the call of duty and offer their lives for it. By doing this, they set the finest examples of supporting the brother and the friend and draw a glorious picture of giving and sacrifice.
 Also they have raised their country's flag high- armed with courage and determination- and nothing dissuades them in pursuing their duties. They remain mutually supportive, hold firmly to the rope of Allah and look forward to the great reward as they are assured of victory from Allah, the most Exalted. Our Lord says in this regard, "and those who are killed in the cause of Allah - never will He waste their deeds. He will guide them and amend their condition and admit them to Paradise, which He has made known to them. O you who have believed, if you support Allah, He will support you and plant firmly your feet." (Muhammad: 4-7).
For his part, our Prophet pbuh said, "Paradise has one-hundred grades which Allah has reserved for those who fight in His Cause, and the distance between each of two grades is like the distance between the Heaven and the Earth."
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah grant our soldiers victory, be their Ever Protector and guide them to the right path, O the Most Exalted.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













