addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, the Creator and the Disposer of all things. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him. Verily, Allah, Exalted is He, has declared the truth in His Holy Book: "and remember the favour of Allah upon you and His covenant with which He bound you when you said, "We hear and we obey"; and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Knowing of that within the breasts." (Al Maeda: 7). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that Allah created the universe according to a precise system as He says, "[He is] the cleaver of daybreak and has made the night for rest and the sun and moon for calculation. That is the determination of the Exalted in Might, the Knowing." (Al Anaam: 96). He also made the earth fit to live on. In this regard, Allah says, "and Allah has made for you the earth an expanse that you may follow therein roads of passage." (Nuh: 19-20). Moreover, He sent His Messengers to guide people and organise matters of their living so they can succeed in this life and the next.
For their part, rulers are entitled to draft laws and regulations to govern worldly affairs of people and facilitate their livelihood, including protecting their rights and interests. In this regard, maintaining order is one of the basic foundations of life and an aspect of progress and civilisation whether in transactions or character. Without it, life gets disrupted. Yet if people are committed to complying with rules, stability shall prevail further. Also individuals will tend to shun away from corruption and aggression. That is why Islam has entrusted rulers with guarding religion and the politics of daily life, and ordered us to obey them:  "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
Obeying rulers implies following the laws and regulations they stipulate. It was reported that Aslam was walking along with Umar ibn Al Khattab around Medina and it was night time. He said, "[Umar] got tired and leaned on a wall...[we overheard] a woman, who told to her daughter: 'go and add water to that milk.' The girl answered back, 'don't you know what Umar has ordered?' The woman asked, 'what was it?' The girl said, 'he asked a caller to warn people not to mix milk with water.' The mother instructed her again saying, 'stand up and add water to the milk for you are in a place where Umar cannot see you.' The daughter said, 'by Allah! I cannot obey him in public while disobey him in secret'."
So those who obey the ruler, they adhere to the laws that he sets down for ensuring the happiness of people and organising their lives. Likewise, they are keen to remind others of it.
 Dear Servants of Allah,
Please also know that compliance with rules and bylaws is one of the most important aspects of observing regulations. In fact, laws are the tools by which to distribute tasks, promote teamwork spirit and offer the environment conducive to strengthening the advancement of institutions.
Respecting traffic law is a familiar example to us that shows people who are committed to rules, which are made to save lives and protect properties. It should be emphasised here that anyone who drives his car beyond the speed limit, without respect of traffic law and rights of road users, he violates Allah's ordinances.  He also puts himself at risk. On this matter, our Lord interdicts us to do that like when He says, "and do not kill yourselves [or one another]. Indeed, Allah is to you ever Merciful." (Annisaa: 29).  Engaging in such conducts harms others as well; it causes them fear and is against the regulations and order. Our Prophet pbuh condemned this behaviour when he said, "there is no injury nor return of injury."  As he warned us, neither should we hurt those who do not cause us any harm, nor should we attempt to settle account with those who have hurt us.
Avoiding risk implies also a commitment to the safe use of the Internet and social media, encouragement of good behaviour and staying away from suspicious sites, in addition to being considerate of Allah whether in public or in privacy. The Exalted is He says, "indeed, those who fear their Lord unseen will have forgiveness and great reward." (Al Mulk: 12). That is, those who fear Allah although they have not seen Him shall receive forgiveness and great reward.
Dear Muslims,
The culture of respecting laws can be enhanced if the individual is convinced that order is the backbone of life, which regulates one's daily life whether in work, on the road, or when seeking a service at a government department or others. Indeed, one's sense of pride of his homeland and his responsibility towards his community require of him adopting this value and considering it a principle and a symbol that everyone must respect. More than that, everyone must also translate it on a daily basis into tangible good manners. Our Prophet pbuh said, "nothing is heavier on the believer's Scale on the Day of Judgment than good character."
The individual must also hold on to high morals and ideals by being disciplined, hence setting a good example for people around him. Moreover, he is required to spread awareness about the importance of observing laws and rules amongst his friends, acquaintances and family. In so doing, he enhances their social role now and in the future so that they can participate effectively in developing the sense of self-discipline and the conscious obedience amongst the community. This way everyone can enjoy an organised and stable life in this world and also get the reward in the Afterlife.
Having said this, we supplicate to Allah to guide us to be amongst His Servants who follow His laws and respect regulations.
O Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the respect of laws leads to great results. It strengthens the collective spirit around protecting the nation, its citizens and residents. It also ensures the rights of individuals, who will stay safe from risks, and preserves lives, integrity and property. This will benefit the whole society, which will remain organised and united, see its goodness and acquisitions increase, as well as its stability prevails. These are the assets that empower the community and let it seek incessantly the path of further growth and prosperity.
In this context, the UAE government has enacted laws and regulations according to the highest standards, so respecting them is a commitment to cooperation in piety. Allah says, "and cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al Maeda: 2)
Bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions.  May Allah make us obedient to our rulers, help us to protect our nation and keep us amongst those who follow the laws and regulations. May Allah also grant us success in every good deed, O the most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs.
O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













