addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He bestows abundant blessings upon His servants and forbids them from engaging in evils and temptations. He also promises the good doers even better reward. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah, having no associates.
I also testify that our Master and Prophet Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge myself first and all of you to obey Allah and be submissive to Him as He says, "and cooperate in righteousness and piety, but do not cooperate in sin and aggression. And fear Allah; indeed, Allah is severe in penalty." (Al Maeda: 2).
Dear Muslims,
Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "the example of the person abiding by Allah's order and restrictions in comparison to those who violate them is like the example of those persons who drew lots for their seats in a boat. Some of them got seats in the upper part, and the others in the lower. When the latter needed water, they had to go up to bring water (and that troubled the others), so they said, 'Let us make a hole in our share of the ship (and get water) saving those who are above us from troubling them. So, if the people in the upper part left the others do what they had suggested, all the people of the ship would be destroyed, but if they prevented them, both parties would be safe."
O Worshippers,
This is a great prophetic teaching, which contains a concrete example and comparison inciting no disagreement amongst sensible people. It highlights the most beautiful meanings and lessons. In it, the Prophet compares the society with the sailing vessel, which everyone should protect amidst the realm of life so that individuals can live happily, in peace, prosperity, love and respect. People are invited, therefore, to work together to achieve mutual interests and ward off various evils.
This sums up principles of solidarity and mutual counselling and strengthens the responsibility of keeping the community safe and stable. Because the ship is one, if it survives so will those on board. If it is hurt, those on board will be hurt too. So everyone is responsible for its safety and has a role to ensure its advancement and welfare. For example, the older should care for the younger, while the younger should treat the elder nicely. The Almighty says, "the believing men and believing women are allies of one another." (Attawba: 71). That is, their hearts are united in mutual affection, love and compassion.
Our Prophet pbuh said, "the similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever." It was said that people are like one body; as they help each other, it emerges to be independent, but if they let each other down, it falls apart.
Dear Muslims,
This Hadith also highlights the sensibly disciplined freedom, which does not harm the individual, the society and the nation as a whole. In fact, as we can see, the Prophet pbuh condemned those who were in the lower part of the vessel as they had intended to pierce a hole to make an easy way up. Had they done this, they could have hurt not only themselves, but also others. That is why he pbuh warned us strongly to avoid similar acts when he said, "if anyone harms (others), Allah will harm him, and if anyone shows hostility to others, Allah will show hostility to him."
This means whoever harms someone unjustly whether taking to his property, person or integrity, Allah will likewise treat him and cause him distress. Indeed the best people are those who are good to others and the dearest to Allah are those who are most beneficial to each other.
Please know that the Exalted is He denounces people who cause harm to their society and country as He says, "they destroyed their houses by their [own] hands." (Al Hashr: 2). This Aya refers to the heinous act of individuals damaging their own homes. For this reason, they are vilified by Allah because they breach trust and seek the destruction of achievements. He says in this regard, "and do not be like she who untwisted her spun thread after it was strong." (Annahl: 92).
This is a Divine lesson to show the ill-doing of persons who break the covenant and destroy what they, themselves, have accomplished. Thus they are like the one who spins her thread, then she unties it into scattered pieces, of no use to her. It is worthwhile mentioning here that the whole society is a trust shared by all and, as such, it ought to be protected.
Benefits in the Hadith also include avoiding evil and overcoming causes of strife before they happen. This can be achieved by educating the ignorant, advising the heedless, teaching the youth and sanctioning the imprudent. Such principles are adopted by the wise people, who believe in prevention being better than the cure.
On this matter, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "some people open the door to good and close the door to evil, and some people open the door to evil and close the door to good. Congratulations to those in whose hands Allah places the keys to good, and woe to those in whose hands Allah places the keys to evil."
Dear Servants of Allah,
Muslims are asked to observe their Lord in their speech and all of their behaviours. They must say but truth and do but good, because they are responsible for their acts. The Almighty says, "and do good - that you may succeed." (Al Haj: 77).
Bearing this in mind, we supplicate to Allah to protect the UAE from all evils and perpetuate its Union. May Allah help us to follow the right path and help us also to obey You, Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and those You have decreed on us to obey Your orders: "O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second sermon
Praise be to Allah. I bear witness that there is no deity but Him, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger, may the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his pure family, his Companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the UAE is a large ship that has set an example of best achievements and giving, a solid edifice and a unified nation under its wise leadership. As we all see, many ships around us endure hard times, ours, by Allah's grace, has remained infallible. Therefore, never should we allow an enemy, a corrupt or an envious to hurt our fortified vessel as they have failed to do that from outside. So let us be also its guards from inside.
The happier is the one who learns from others' experiences, acknowledges the merit of Allah's blessings on him, remains grateful to Him, to his homeland and leaders and be considerate to his society. Thus he is on the path of the Prophets and Messengers. The Prophet Sulaiman (Solomon) was quoted in Quran as saying, "My Lord, enable me to be grateful for Your favour which You have bestowed upon me and upon my parents and to do righteousness of which You approve. And admit me by Your mercy into [the ranks of] Your righteous servants." (Annaml: 19).  
O Muslims, bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his Companions. May Allah grant us always Your blessings and make us amongst Your servants who protect their nation and are keen to strive for its safety and advancement. May Allah also make us keys to good deeds and barriers against evils, O the Most Exalted.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from hell. O Allah we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued good health to our leader HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and provide strength and assistance to his brothers, Their Highness The Rulers of the Emirates, and his trustworthy Crown Prince HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













