addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Islamic Affairs has affirmed that it has taken strict measures to ensure that pilgrims are protected and that entry to the camps at Mina and Arafat is limited to electronic card holders only. The new step makes sure unregistered pilgrims cannot be hosted in the camps. Awqaf also noted the success of the electronic pilgrim registration system, which closed at 4,982 pilgrims.
HE Dr. Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, called on Hajj operators' owners to be fully aware of and committed to the instructions given to them, underscoring the need for them to assume the security responsibility for pilgrims and personnel as well as those accessing the UAE camps in the Holy Places. The Hajj operators are also responsible for informing the head of the Hajj mission of any irregularity or signs of it in order to avoid it before it happens, Dr al Kaabi added.
As a precautionary measure to address the intense heat, the official mission contracted with companies to provide electric generators for use in case air conditioners fail to function properly or in case of other emergencies if any, he said.
This came during a meeting between Dr Al Kaabi and the owners of the 120 accredited hajj operators, which form 30 main Hajj campaigns after the merger. The meeting was held at the Fairmont Bab Al Bahr Hotel in Abu Dhabi yesterday.
Dr Al Kaabi prayed to Allah the Almighty to protect HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates. He also wished the work would translate the responsibility assumed and be up to the expectations of the UAE wise leaders, who offer relentless support to the pilgrims and those in charge of Hajj affairs.
A pilgrim can enter the UAE camp in the holy sites using a card he should carry with him. Scanned by an electronic reader, the card shows the pilgrim's personal details, including the numbers of his tent and bed. Dr al Kaabi stressed the necessity for Hajj operators' owners not to bring in people from outside the camp for whatever the reason is.
Dr Al Kaabi explained further that the number of the UAE pilgrims remained the same this year and the number of permits issued  was 4,982, being distributed equally amongst operators.
He mentions that the Hajj committees along with the 180-member strong  mission work in shifts round the clock and that the official Hajj mission has no place to spend the night at Mina camp. Therefore, he urged the Hajj operators' owners to show unrestricted collaboration to handle the pilgrims' affairs, maintain security and keep order.
"We are here to help, not to violate the rules. We are fully ready to shoulder the responsibility for any campaign facing any sudden problem. Therefore, you are kindly requested to take a proactive step as necessary to prevent any danger, considering that we have a generous support from our prudent leadership in all matters relating to ensuring the safety and comfort of pilgrims. While we hope this Hajj season will finish smoothly as is every year, the door of suggestions is open for you to make any improvement or development that you deem suitable for serving the UAE pilgrims in the best manner," Dr Al Kaabi said.
He pointed out that the Saudi authorities told Awqaf about a complaint that applied to all the campaigns from all Islamic countries, explaining that abstaining from receiving pilgrims at airports with flowers, juice and so on. This is aimed at preventing any inconvenience or confusion to the Saudi authorities from both the administrative and security viewpoints as well as avoiding problems and maintaining the security and safety of pilgrims.
On another note, Dr Al Kaabi warned that temperature this year is expected to reach its highest compared to previous years and this would require the operators to educate pilgrims, particularly first timers, who make up 2500 this year, not to move around or do any work during heat peak hours in Mecca. They should be advised to postpone this until after Maghrib prayers time.
He added that Awqaf contracted with a company in Mina camp to install air-conditioners and provide solutions to power outages, noting that the security committee would consider the mechanisms related to the buses used for transporting the UAE pilgrims with a view to maintaining their safety.
"We have to deal fairly with everyone and operators are urged to co-operate with us and refer to us in case of any problem. Operators' owners should keep a copy of Hajj permits they have obtained from the Saudi authorities and should give a copy to every pilgrim so that the rights of all parties are preserved," he said.
Al Kaabi pointed out that this year Awqaf succeeded by 90 per cent in educating citizens in Hajj-related matters, and it is looking forward to increase its efforts even further in this regard.  
Awqaf distributed Emirati pilgrims equally amongst campaigns and underlined the necessity for all the entities seeking to send citizens to Hajj to join the accredited campaigns, he said, explaining that many new measures were introduced with the goal of achieving a successful Hajj process. These included adopting an early electronic registration system, closely monitoring all elements of hajj, stressing the need for the UAE camp to be clean and introducing an electronic access card for the pilgrims.
Additionally, all the committees working under the official mission were required to submit their security plans together with a detailed plan as of September 3, the date the preparatory mission leaves for Holy Places, he added.
Awqaf and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will jointly announce that each pilgrim should possess a permit, that no pilgrim from outside the UAE is allowed to be listed in a Hajj campaign and that each pilgrim should make sure of his medical status before leaving the country. Contact numbers with the official hajj mission, the medical committee and the UAE Embassy in Saudi Arabia will be mentioned in the awareness leaflets to be distributed to pilgrims.
Meanwhile, Mr Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, the Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, stated that the number of tents at the UAE camp in Saudi Arabia would be reduced from 652 tents last year to 500 tents this year and each will house 20 to 30 pilgrims. There will be no tents for the mission or operators' owners. Mr Al Mazrouei called on Hajj campaigns' owners to behave as if they are in charge of the mission in order to cooperate fruitfully and achieve the best results.
 
 













