addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon 
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He bestows abundant blessings upon the doers of good and multiplies His reward for those who spend for good causes. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, and that Muhammad is His Messenger, who commanded us towards the benevolence and generosity. May peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you and myself, servants of Allah to obey Him, as He says, ''so be conscious of Allah as much as you can, and listen, and obey, and give for your own good." (Attarabun: 16). Allah also says, "so give good news to My servants, those who listen to the Word, and follow the best of it." (Azzumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
The Prophet pbuh prayed for Yemen to be blessed with welfare and mercy, as he said: "O Allah! Bestow Your blessings on our Yemen."  The Prophet also praised the Yemeni people for their kindness and soft hearts, as he said, "the people of Yemen have come to you and they are more gentle and soft-hearted. Belief is Yemenite and Wisdom is Yemenite."
Jabir Bin Mutate (may Allah be pleased with him) once said, 'while accompanying the Prophet PBUH on the way to Mecca, the Prophet said, 'the people of Yemen have come to you like the pieces of clouds. They are the best of people on earth."
O Worshippers, 
The people of Yemen are dear to Emiratis as the two countries are historically tied with strong brotherly relationship. The people of Yemen are going through hard times and enduring a difficult humanitarian situation, causing many of them to fall short of meeting their needs. Many also lack resources and might fail to feed their children. Many of them lost their families and homes and have insufficient or no medications and care. Many public facilities were damaged, causing destabilisation and threatening millions of lives.
It is our duty, therefore, to stand by them and help them to overcome their crisis. The Prophet Muhammad pub said, "Allah will remain in the aid of a servant so long as the servant remains in the aid of his brother." That is, those who help others, Allah will help them and protect them from misfortunes.
O Servants of Allah, 
Please be aware that true Muslims are merciful towards one another, help one another, and have great sympathy for one another. True Muslims bring also help to people in need and relieve their hardship, as the Messenger of Allah pub said, "whoever removes a worldly grief from a believer, Allah will remove from him one of the grieves of the Day of Judgment. And whoever alleviates the need of a needy person, Allah will alleviate his needs in this world and the hereafter. And if anyone conceals a Muslim's fault then Allah will conceal (his fault) in the World and the Hereafter."
Thus, one way to remove grieves of our brotherly people in Yemen is by meeting their needs, as guided by the Messenger of Allah pub who said, "he who has surplus of provisions should give those who have no provisions." The narrator said, "he pbuh made mention of so many kinds of wealth until we were of the opinion that none of us has any right over the surplus." Some scholars said, "this is an on-going ruling until the Day of Judgment. It is an obligation to help the needy and the people in distress, wherever they are." The Prophet pbuh said, "a man is not a believer who fills his stomach while his neighbour is hungry."
Therefore, whoever extends a hand of help to needy people, Allah will bestow upon him abundant provision. The Almighty says: "whatever good you advance for yourselves, you will find it with Allah, better and generously rewarded."  (Al Muzzamil: 20)
The Messenger of Allah pbuh said: "Allah (The Almighty and the Sublime be He) will say on the Day of Judgment, 'O son of Adam, I asked you for food and you fed Me not.' He will say, 'O Lord, and how should I feed You when You are the Lord of the worlds?' He will say, 'did you not know that My servant So-and-so asked you for food and you fed him not? Did you not know that had you fed him you would surely have found that (the reward for doing so) with Me? O son of Adam, I asked you to give Me to drink and you gave Me not to drink.' He will say, 'O Lord, how should I give You to drink when You are the Lord of the worlds?' Allah will say, 'My servant So-and-so asked you to give him to drink and you gave him not to drink. Had you given him to drink you would have surely found that with Me'."
Glad tidings to those who are granted success from Allah to alleviate the sorrows of the distressed and draw a smile on their faces. The Prophet pbuh said, "a Muslim is the brother of a fellow-Muslim. He should neither commit oppression upon him nor ruin him." This means a Muslim should not turn his back to  a fellow-Muslim who is enduring hardship; rather he should comfort him and do whatever possible to support him. It is prohibited to withhold support when one is able to provide it.
O Servants of Allah
 I urge you to be of help to your brotherly people in Yemen and donate for them in order to earn Allah's satisfaction, for He will reward you many-fold what you have spent and grant you good consequences and high status. Allah the Almighty says, "those who spend their wealth by night and day, privately and publicly, will receive their reward from their Lord. They have nothing to fear, nor shall they grieve." (Al Baqara: 274). In the same regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "whoever spends a sum in the cause of Allah, it is recorded for him seven-hundred fold."
Bearing this in mind, we ask Allah to help us to assist the needy and support our brotherly people in Yemen. May Allah ease their distress and grant them peace. May Allah also protect them and help us to be the best support for them. O Lord, may You make us all obey You and Your Prophet Muhammad pbuh and obey who You commanded us to obey, following what You say: "O you who have believed obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you."  (Annisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great, the Most Honoured for forgiveness for me, you and all the Muslims for every sin, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no god to be worshiped but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Pease be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that the Prophet pbuh instructed us to give for the people in need and hardship. It was reported that a group of people came to the Prophet pbuh barefooted and naked. The colour of the Messenger underwent a change when he saw them in poverty. He then entered (his house) and came out and commanded Bilal (to pronounce Adhan). He pronounced Adhan and Iqama, and he (the Holy Prophet) observed prayer and then addressed (his companions):
"O people, fear your Lord, Who created you from a single soul" to the end of the verse, "Allah is ever a Watcher over you." (He then recited) a verse of Surat Al Hashr: "Fear Allah. And let every soul consider that which it sends forth for tomorrow and fear Allah". (Then the audience began to vie one another in giving charity). Some donated a dinar, others a dirham, still others clothes, some donated a saa of wheat, and some a saa of dates. Then a person from among the Ansar came there with a money bag which his hands could scarcely lift; in fact, they could not (lift). Then the people followed continuously, till I saw two heaps of eatables and clothes, and I saw the face of the Messenger pbuh glistening, like gold (on account of joy).
Following the Prophet's noble guidance, and in line with the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, the Emirates Red Crescent Authority launched a national campaign for helping the Yemeni people under the theme "Relief for Yemen". Let us then join efforts and contribute as much as we can to assist the Yemeni people in their plight.     
Furthermore, you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon Prophet Muhammad pbuh. Allah the Almighty says, "Allah and His angels confer blessings to the Prophet. O you who believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56) The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "whoever supplicates Allah to exalt my mention, Allah will exalt his mention ten times." The Prophet pbuh also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family and companions. May Allah bless our brothers in Yemen with stability and welfare and ease their distress and calamities. O Allah, grant us success in helping them and relieving their sufferings. O You, Possessor of Glory and Honour.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed or a handicapped without relief, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah have mercy upon our righteous martyrs and raises their status in the highest ranks of Paradise to reside amongst  those upon whom Allah has bestowed favour, of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Almighty, O the most Forgiver.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any sort of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl:90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













