addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, attended in Al Ain the graduation ceremony of the first batch of Khateebs and preachers from training centres. Awqaf organised the first set of courses in Al Ain and Ras Al Khaimah where three theoretical and one practical subject were taught. The curriculum covered Arabic language, oration, Khateeb's jurisprudence and workshops aimed at skills development.
During the ceremony, Dr Al Kaabi honoured the graduates in the presence of branch directors and delivered a speech in which he praised the efforts made by the UAE's wise leadership in serving Islam and promoting its concepts of moderation and tolerance.
Dr Al Kaabi highlighted that those efforts were embodied in establishing training centres for Imams, Khateebs and preachers in which the trainees are prepared academically as well as practically to fulfil the sublime message of Islam and enhance their skills with the aim of fulfilling this mission.
Dr Al Kaabi explained that Awqaf would continue to implement its strategic plan to enhance the competencies of Imams, Khateebs and preachers and enable them to excel. He noted also that the graduation of this group came as part of Awqaf's future strategic aiming at attracting talents known for their admirable public speaking skills and further qualifying them to reach levels of excellence.
"In this context, Awqaf set up training centres for Khateebs, Imams and preachers. As a first step, two centres were opened: one in Al Ain City and the other in Ras Al Khaimah," Dr Al Kaabi said, adding that Awqaf approved three main foundation subjects, which are grammar and rhetoric, Fiqh rules, oratory and communication skills, in addition to a practical subject being an assessment tool based on specific standards.
There are also other curriculums in prospect like Islamic culture with a view to enlightening the trainees about the importance of consolidating the principles of moderation, ensuring peaceful coexistence, harmony and stability and endorsing highly positive values.
 
 













