addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
 All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He has raised the rank of martyrs and promised them greatest rewards. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, and that Muhammad is His Messenger, who best defended the nations and was the commander of the Mujahideen and Imam of the patient. May peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you and myself, servants of Allah to obey Him, as He says, "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imran: 200).
Dear Muslims,
The UAE has generously offered a number of its dear children to defend justice, to support the oppressed, and deter the oppressor. They gave their lives to rescue the Yemeni people. The UAE has offered men who were courageous, who did not hesitate to sacrifice their pure blood and souls for the sake of love for and loyalty to their homeland, the UAE, and their Arab and Muslim Nation as a whole.
Indeed, the UAE people are like one family. Their word is one. They rally around their wise leadership like one person and are proud of their martyrs. Why would not they be, as the martyrs were full of pride and dignity? They sacrificed themselves for the sake of Allah so to be rewarded a garden as wide as the heavens and earth.
In this regard, the Exalted is He says, "indeed, Allah has purchased from the believers their lives and their properties [in exchange] for that they will have Paradise. They fight in the cause of Allah, so they kill and are killed. [It is] a true promise [binding] upon Him in the Torah and the Gospel and the Quran. And who is truer to his covenant than Allah? So rejoice in your transaction which you have contracted. And it is that which is the great attainment." (At-Tawbah: 11).
Truly, they have attained the honour of martyrdom and shall have the good tidings of eternal abode in Paradise, wherein they will rejoice fully its provisions. Jabir bin Abdullah said, "the Messenger of Allah looked at me one day and said, 'O Jabir, why do I see you sad' I said, 'O Messenger of Allah, My father was martyred and left behind debts and children.' He pbuh said, 'Should I tell you that Allah never spoke to anyone except from behind a veil; However, He spoke to your father directly.' He said, 'O my servant, ask Me and I will give you.' He said, 'I ask that I will be returned to life so that I will be killed in Your cause again.' The Lord, Exalted He be, said, 'I have spoken the word that they shall not be returned back to it (this life)'."
Thereupon, Allah revealed the following Aya, "and never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision." (Al Imran: 169). The Prophet pbuh said, "the souls of the martyrs live in the bodies of green birds who have their nests in chandeliers hung from the throne of the Almighty. They eat fruits of Paradise from wherever they like and then nestle in these chandeliers. Once their Lord cast a glance at them and said, "do you want anything?' They said, 'what more shall we desire? We eat the fruit of Paradise from wherever we like'."
Their Lord asked them the same question three times. When they saw that they would continue to be asked and not left (without answering the question), they said, 'O Lord, we wish that You may return our souls to our bodies so that we may be slain in Your way once again.' When He (Allah) saw that they had no need, they were left (to their joy in Heaven)."
May such pure souls rejoice mercy and forgiveness from Allah. Our Lord says, "and if you are killed in the cause of Allah or die - then forgiveness from Allah and mercy are better than whatever they accumulate [in this world]." (Al Iman: 157). Interpreters explained the verse by saying that being killed in the cause of Allah is a means to attain Allah's mercy, forgiveness and satisfaction, these are better than remaining in this world and accumulating its perishable ruins.
O Servants of Allah,
 
Our righteous martyrs have answered the call of duty. They offered to defend justice, fight oppression, establish pride and dignity, raise the flag of the nation higher and obey the ruler. They have carved their names in the records of martyrs and seen their status elevated amongst the prophets. The Almighty says, "those will be with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favor of the prophets, the steadfast affirmers of truth, the martyrs and the righteous. And excellent are those as companions." (An-Nissaa: 69).
O family of the Martyrs, please rejoice and be happy about the exclusive blessings bestowed by Allah upon your children, such as the highest degrees [of Paradise]. Anas bin Malik narrated that the mother of Haritha bin Suraqa came to the Prophet pbuh and said, "O Messenger of Allah, will you tell me about Haritha?" Haritha was killed (i.e., martyred) on the day of Badr with an arrow thrown by an unidentified person. She added, "if he is in Paradise, I will be patient; otherwise, I will weep bitterly for him." He said, "O mother of Haritha, there are Gardens in Paradise and your son got the Firdaus Al Ala (i.e., the best place in Paradise)."
Let's rejoice and be patient towards the pain of parting [with your loved ones]. And rest assured that the reward for patience is great. Allah says, "indeed, the patient will be given their reward without account." (Az-Zumar: 10). Let's also stay firm to righteousness. Allah, Exalted He be, says, "and what struck you on the day the two armies met was by permission of Allah that He might make evident the [true] believers." (Al Imran: 166). There is no doubt that death will come, just in the right time, neither earlier, nor later. The Almighty says, "but never will Allah delay a soul when its time has come. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Munafiqun: 11).
 It is so admirable then to remain patient, endure affliction and accept destiny. Allah has indeed chosen them as martyrs. He says, "and [may] take to Himself from among you martyrs." (Al Imran: 140). Thanks to their martyrdom, they will be remembered, receive praise in this life and happiness and light in the Hereafter. The Amighty says, "and the martyrs, with their Lord. For them is their reward and their light." (Al-Hadid: 19). The family of the martyrs should, therefore, hold their heads up high in pride. They should also be proud of what they have given to their country and nation. Their fallen sons are heroes, who are role models for generations to come.
O Allah, we implore you to accept our pure martyrs, raise their rank and gather them with the righteous. O Allah, please guide us all to obey you and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no god to be worshiped but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that these events only make us more determined to support justice, and be further united under our wise leadership. The events make us even more resolved to achieve victory. In fact, our nation is having a fresh spirit throughout its four corners; a spirit, purified by the sacrifices of our martyrs and the heroic acts of our Armed Forces, reveals a strong sense of belonging to the country and sincere loyalty to the ruler. Bearing this in mind, let's pray to Allah, the Exalted is He, to protect them and grant them victory.
On this occasion, the leaders and people of the UAE would like to extend their sincere gratitude and appreciation to our honourable and dutiful martyrs for their undying sacrifices and would like to offer their heartfelt condolences to their families.
O Worshippers,
Please bear in mind that you are asked to offer prayer and greetings upon our most noble Prophet pbuh for Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and all his companions. May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and gather them with the righteous. May Allah forgive them, honour them and make Paradise their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets, the steadfast affirmers of truth, the martyrs and the righteous.
O Allah, please make steadfast the hearts of their families and grant them the best reward for their children whom they offered to their country. May Allah also remove their sadness and compensate them for their calamity. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the UAE and its Armed Forces and guide them to the right path. May Allah open the doors for them, remove the obstacles from their way, strengthen them and protect them, O the Best Protector.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead, and make blessings follow us and them. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Maktoum and all their brothers, the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy to our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us deprived, desperate or unhappy.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to preserve the UAE from all temptations, both apparent and hidden, and   continue blessing the UAE and all Muslim countries with safety and security.
"Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful for His benevolence He will increase His blessings to you. Allah, the Most High, says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 
 













