addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In appreciation of martyrdom and martyrs, Allah says, "and never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision." Thus, sacrificing one's own life for others is regarded as extreme generosity.
Bearing this in mind, it is our duty to honour our martyrs for what they offered to their wise leadership and their country when they answered the call of duty. Indeed, martyrs are the real survivors. They sacrificed their precious lives to answer the call of duty, brotherhood and legitimate rights in the brotherly Yemen. They fought in the way of Allah and Paradise will be their reward, God willing.
On this occasion, Awqaf would like to express its deep sympathy and the most noble feelings of pride to the UAE wise leadership and brave armed forces, to the families of martyrs, the UAE people in particular and the Arab people in general on the sad demise of UAE soldiers whose souls returned to their Creator.
Mourning UAE martyrs, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, said, "glad tidings to those from whom Allah has purchased their most precious property, as they will see their status elevated to the highest ranks in the Day of Judgement and rejoice mercy and forgiveness from Hm."
The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "observing Ribat (e.g., guarding the Islamic frontier in the cause of Allah) for a single day is far better than the world and all that it contains. A place in Paradise as small as the whip of your horse is far better than the world and all that it contains. An endeavour (fighting) in the Cause of Allah in the evening or in the morning is far better than the world and all that it contains."
The Prophet pbuh also said, "by Him in whose hand Muhammad's soul is, whoever is wounded while fighting in the cause of Allah, will come on the Day of Judgment with blood oozing from his wound having the colour of blood but with the fragrance of musk."
We implore Allah to raise the rank of our brave martyrs amongst the prophets, the steadfast affirmers of truth and the martyrs. And excellent are those as companions.
 
 













