addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He commands His servants to remember Him and promises them abundant rewards. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah. He accepts those who repent to Him and gives those who supplicate to Him. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger, the best of mankind. He was the best who worshipped his Creator and performed Hajj and Umrah. May peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you and myself, servants of Allah to obey Him, as He says, ''and take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al Baqarah: 196).
Dear Muslims,
Indeed, Allah prefers some days of the year with the first ten days of Dhul Hijjah being the best ones in this world. About them. the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "there are no days in this world better than the (first) ten days (of Dhul-Hijjah)." Moreover, Allah swore by them in an indication to their great importance, as He says, "by the dawn. And [by] the ten nights." (Al-Fajr: 1-2). This means the ten days of Dhul Hijjah are the best days in the year, because during which the best acts of worship are being performed. In these days, Allah has prescribed Hajj to be performed and multiplied His reward for the good doers. The Prophet pbuh said, "no good deeds done on other days are superior to those done on these (first ten days of Dhul-Hijjah)." Then some companions of the Prophet pbuh said, "not even Jihad?" He replied, "not even Jihad, except that of a man who does it by putting himself and his property in danger (for Allah's sake) and does not return with any of those things."
O Servants of Allah, 
In these days, it is recommended to perform as many acts of obedience as possible, including Nawafils, such as Duha and late night prayers, fasting, giving charity, Holy Quran recitation and remembrance of Allah, the Almighty. In this context, the Exalted is He says, "and mention the name of Allah on known days." (Al Hajj: 28). That is the first ten days of Dhul-Hijjah.
Remembering Allah is one of the best acts of worships as the Prophet pbuh said, "shall I not tell you the best of your deeds, and those that give you the highest rank, and those that are the purest with your King, and are better for you than giving gold and silver, and better for you than meeting your enemy and striking their necks?" They said, "Of course." He said, "Remembrance (Dhikr) of Allah the most Exalted."
 [Then] Muaadh bin Jabal, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "there is nothing that brings more salvation from the punishment of Allah than the remembrance of Allah."
Indeed, remembrance of Allah is the best provision in all circumstances, as the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "whoever is in terror of enduring the night and is stingy about spending his wealth and fears to fight the enemy should remember Allah frequently."
Allah, the Most High, ordered us to increase Dhikr at times of hardship, as He says, "O you who believe, when you meet a force, then be firm and remember Allah much so that you may (be) successful." (Al-Anfal: 45). Indeed, remembrance of Allah makes one's heart firmer at times of difficulty, alleviates his burdens and gives him satisfaction. Allah, the Most High, says, "those who have believed and whose hearts are assured by the remembrance of Allah. Unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah hearts are assured." (Al-Raad: 28). The remembrance of Allah nurtures one's soul and assures his heart. In this regard the Prophet said, "the example of the one who celebrates the Praises of his Lord (Allah) in comparison to the one who does not celebrate the Praises of his Lord, is that of a living creature compared to a dead one."
In the same context, Allah, the Almighty, has prepared for those who remember Him frequently abundant rewards, as He says, "and the men who remember Allah often and the women who do so - for them Allah has prepared forgiveness and a great reward." (Al Ahzab: 35). The great reward prepared for them is that Allah will remember them, as He says, "so remember Me; I will remember you." (Al Baqara: 152). So, blessed are those who are granted success from Allah to do good deeds during those sacred days. The Almighty says, "but the enduring good deeds are better to your Lord for reward and better for [one's] hope." (Al Kahf: 46). Indeed, the enduring good deeds are a servant's saying, "Allah is greater;  glory be to Allah, praise be to Allah; there is no god but Allah and there is no power and no strength except by Allah."
O Servants of Allah, 
The Almighty and the Sublime is He urged us to remember Him much, as He says, "O you who have believed, remember Allah with much remembrance. And exalt Him morning and afternoon." (Al Ahzab: 41-42). Allah also urges His servants to remember Him after performing worships, for remembrance is the best conclusion of all acts of worship. Allah says in regards to performing Hajj, "and when you have completed your rites, remember Allah like your [previous] remembrance of your fathers or with [much] greater remembrance." (Al Baqara: 200). Concerning fasting, the Exalted is He says, "and [wants] for you to complete the period and to glorify Allah for that [to] which He has guided you; and perhaps you will be grateful." (Al Baqara: 185). Indeed, one way to remember Allah is by glorifying Him.
Also prayers are stipulated by the Almighty for His remembrance, as He says, "and establish prayer for My remembrance." (Taha: 14). So by observing prayer, one appeals to Allah and be close to Him. The Glorious is He has named prayers as 'remembrance', like in this Aya: "Then proceed to the remembrance of Allah." (Al Jumuaah: 9). This means the prayer is a remembrance of Allah.
O Worshippers,
In few days, we will witness a great blessed day that the Almighty honoured and swore by when He says, "by the sky containing great stars. And [by] the promised Day. And [by] the witness and what is witnessed." (Al Buruj:1-3).
Such a witnessed day is the "Day of Arafah". Allah swore by it for it is a glorious and honourable day. The gathering of Muslims on mount Arafah strengthens their relationship with their Creator. There, they feel the sense of the Great Hashr (gathering), so they appeal to Allah for mercy and fear His punishment. Please know that the best supplications are those made on this special day. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "the best of supplication is the supplication of the Day of Arafah. And the best of what I and the Prophets before me have said is: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, Alone, without partner, to Him belongs all that exists, and to Him belongs the Praise, and He is powerful over all things."
With this in mind, let us supplicate to Allah, for He is the Generous who never returns His servants' supplications unanswered, for the Prophet pbuh said, "Indeed, Allah, is Hayy, Generous, when a man raises his hands to Him, He feels too shy to return them to him empty and rejected."   
Let's pray to Allah, the Exalted is He, to protect the UAE Armed Forces and grant them victory. May Allah also grant success to our rulers and guide our children to the right path. May Allah have mercy on our dead and martyrs and raise their status in the highest ranks and heal the illnesses of His sick servants.
O Lord (the Best Giver, the Most Generous), we implore you to confer your blessings on us, our families, our nation and our rulers. May Allah have mercy on us, make our hearts closer and grant us victory over our enemies. O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and benefit us all in whatever is in them.
I say this and ask Allah the Great for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public and know that on the Day of Arafah the gates of mercy are opened. To benefit of this glorious day one has to engage further in acts of worship. In it, it is recommended for non-pilgrims to fast so that their sins, by Allah's grace, be forgiven and their burdens be removed. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "fast the Day of Arafah, for indeed I anticipate that Allah will forgive (the sins) of the year after it, and the year before it."
Please know also that the Day of Arafah is a day of high merits when Allah, the Almighty, forgives the sins of his servants and raises their status higher. Therefore, it is beneficial to keep ourselves busy with Dhikr. Indeed remembering Allah is the most honest words that one may utter and is an indication of one's clean hearts and love for his Creator. It is true that, the words of mouth are reflections of what is inside the heart. So, if one's heart is full of love and gratitude to Allah, then his tongue will certainly flow with Dhikr. Bearing this in mind, we pray to Allah to make us amongst those who remember Him much. 
Please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and all his companions. May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and gather them with the righteous. May Allah forgive them, honour them and make Paradise their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah accept the martyrs of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Morocco and grant them the eternal dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, "Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl:90).
O servants of Allah,
Please remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings, and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













