addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Hamad Yusuf Mualla, Awqaf's Vice President of UAE Hujjaj's Office Affair, Ahmed Mohammed Mankoush, the UAE Consul General in Jeddah and heads of the mission's sub-committees welcomed the UAE Official Hajj Mission upon arrival in King Abdulaziz International Airport in Saudi Arabia.
During a meeting with the mission's members, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf chairman, called upon the UAE pilgrims to comply with the instructions and cooperate with the relevant committees. The mission left on time from Abu Dhabi to Saudi Arabia and is scheduled to return to the homeland on September 28. Dr Al Kaabi thanked Abu Dhabi International Airport's authorities for the facilities they had provided to the mission members and the UAE pilgrims flying from the airport.
Dr Al Kaabi said that Saudi Arabia required each pilgrim to possess a Hajj permit and prohibited any person from another country to perform Hajj unless a resident of that country. Therefore, it is undesirable for a person to join another country's campaign. He mentioned that the Abu Dhabi Quran Radio will run live coverage from Saudi Arabia.
On another note, Dr Al Kaabi warned that temperatures will be significantly higher this year. Therefore, the mission took precautionary measures to address this issue by providing backup generators in case power cuts happen.
Dr Al Kaabi pointed out that a contract was signed with a company at Mina camp to install AC units and find solutions to potential power outages. Heads of campaigns were instructed to educate pilgrims, particularly new pilgrims who make up 2500 this year, not to move around during heat peak hours in Mecca.
Dr Al Kaabi said that Awqaf has ehnaced all tent services at Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifah for this year's season. It has provided all means of comfort and safety for the UAE's pilgrims following directives from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and their brethren Rulers of the Emirates, who offer relentless support to the pilgrims and the Hajj mission.
Dr Al Kaabi mentioned that the hajj mission was accompanied by 9 sub-committees, namely the medical, security, media, financial, IT, public relations, supporting services and complaints, in addition to the tents committee in Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifah. He noted that Awqaf had successfully launched the electronic registration system. He called on Hajj operators to be fully aware of and committed to the instructions given to them, underscoring the need for them to assume the security responsibility for pilgrims and personnel as well as those accessing the UAE camps in the Holy Places.
Dr Al Kaabi prayed to the Almighty to grant health and welfare to HH Sheikh Khalifa, calling upon Hajj operators to be up to the responsibility.
 













