addthis_pub="newawqaf";















During a meeting held at the offices of the Kingdom of Bahrain's Hajj Mission in Mecca, the heads of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Hajj delegations discussed means of overcoming obstacles and increasing coordination amongst GCC countries regarding GCC pilgrims' affairs.
The meeting was attended by Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, Deputy Head of the UAE Hajj Mission, Sheikh Adnan Bin Abdullah Al Qattan, Head of Kingdom of Bahrain's Hajj Mission, Khalif Bin Muthaib Al-Auzainah, Head of Kuwaiti Hajj Mission, Sheikh Issa Bin Yousef Al Busaidi, Chairman of the Omani Hajj Mission, Dr. Abdul Salam Bin Ali Al Qahtani, Executive President of Qatari Hajj Mission, and Ibrahim Al Muslimani, Consul of Bahrain in Jeddah.
At the beginning of the meeting, condolences were offered to the UAE leadership, government and people on the demise of the late Sheikh Rashid Bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum.
Al Qattan said, "this annual meeting always stresses that the GCC Hajj missions are coherent and integrated and we look to this annual meeting that is hosted alternatively in one of the GCC missions each year",
He added that these meetings complement the great services provided by the government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and support Saudi Arabia's tremendous efforts to serve pilgrims as represented by the Supreme Hajj Committee and the Saudi Ministry of Hajj. All of the GCC countries support Saudi Arabia in terms of awareness, organisation and sponsorship for a secure and successful hajj season every year, he added.
For his part, Al Auzainah pointed out that these debates, discussions and regular meetings among the GCC missions would further strengthen relations and help solve problems faced by Hajj missions in the best interest of pilgrims.
Later, a closed-door meeting was held to discuss various matters of concern to the GCC countries and some of the obstacles faced by them.
During the meeting, Kuwait demonstrated its experience in low-cost Hajj, which was implemented based on the instructions of HE Yaqoub Al Sanea, Kuwaiti Minister of Justice and Awqaf, Al Auzainah said.
The experience was widely acclaimed by all GCC countries as a solution to the high cost of Hajj, he said, noting that Kuwait would soon brief the other GCC Hajj missions on the results achieved.
The heads of delegations also agreed to hold a coordination meeting next February to discuss their positions and matters of interest to the GCC pilgrims, he added.
Kuwait chairs the current session of the annual meeting of the GCC Hajj missions while Qatar will chair the next session.
 













