addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE Hujjaj Affairs' Office yesterday completed its preparations for grouping the UAE pilgrims from Mecca to Mina and Arafat. The office organised a series of briefings with operators, campaigns officials and the regulatory committees to make sure campaigns are adherent to the standards set by Awqaf to provide means of comfort for pilgrims.
All of the HAO's sub-committees and Hajj campaigns asserted that they were fully prepared to achieve the strategic objectives set by Awqaf for this year.
Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman and HAO Head, underscored the need for the office members, campaign operators and pilgrims to live up to the trust placed in them by the UAE wise leadership. He praised the care received from HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates.
"It is an honour to serve pilgrims and it is the duty of HAO members and campaigns to provide an environment that will help pilgrims perform their Hajj rituals smoothly all over the holy places," Dr Al Kaabi said.
During the meetings held in the main hall of the HAO premises in Mecca, Mr Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, the Executive Director for Islamic Affairs and HAO Deputy Head, addressed a number of standards of excellence that all members of the office, campaigns operators, administrators and pilgrims should respect.
These standards include highlighting the noble values ​​of the UAE and reflecting its civilised image during the performance of rituals, he said, noting that the sense of responsibility by pilgrims, office members and campaigns that they represent the UAE would contribute significantly to achieving excellence.
Mr Al Mazrouei called on all members to work as a team and focus on achieving excellence in the services provided to pilgrims. He also called on religious scholars and preachers to give accurate Fatwas, answer pilgrims' queries properly and be simple in addressing the religious matters inquired about by the pilgrims.
Mr Al Mazrouei also stressed the responsibility of scholars to elaborate on Hajj rites for pilgrims and take a moderate approach when responding to pilgrims' queries.
Meetings were organized and five hotlines were made available for pilgrims to contact preachers and scholars, he said.
Mr Al Mazrouei also affirmed that all scholars and preachers are committed to the moderate approach of thinking, which is adopted by the UAE.  Fatwas should be helpful and easy to understand, he added.
Monitoring health conditions
In a coordination meeting with the official Hajj delegation doctors, the medical committee briefed the medical staff on how to treat the UAE pilgrims who fall sick, asking them to contact the Saudi Red Crescent and local hospitals in case of emergency. They should also inform the medical committee about the health status of all pilgrims, it said.
Dr Abdul Karim Al Zarouni, Director of Emergency, Crisis and Disaster Operations Centre at the Ministry of Health and Chief of Medical Committee, pointed out that the medical committee raised the preparedness level in the holy sites due to the high temperatures and in anticipation of any other emergencies. He added that his committee supplied the camps with integrated clinics and medical facilities for men and women.
WhatsApp messages
Dr Al Zarouni praised the Hajj campaign doctors and their continuous communication with pilgrims through SMS and WhatsApp to provide them with the necessary advice, answer their queries and locate them in case of emergency.
 
 













