addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Judge, the Just. His judgment prevails and all gratitude is due to Him. I bear witness that there is no deity but Allah. He relates the truth and He is the best of deciders. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger, who was the best to serve justice. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O servants of Allah, I urge you and myself, to obey Him, as He says, ''be just; that is nearer to righteousness. And fear Allah; indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Maedah: 8). 
O Muslims,
Justice is among the greatest foundations on which Allah the Almighty created the heavens and the earth. It is the guide to the straight path and an essential element of life. Our Lord says, "and the heaven He raised and imposed the balance." (Al Rahman: 7). This means He applies justice on earth and orders us to be just accordingly. Allah revealed also the Quran in truth as He says, "it is Allah who has sent down the Book in truth and [also] the balance." (Al Shuraa: 17)
According to some scholars, balance equates to justice, which the Almighty maintains amongst His Creation. In this regard, He says, "Allah witnesses that there is no deity except Him, and [so do] the angels and those of knowledge - [that He is] maintaining [creation] in justice. There is no deity except Him, the Exalted in Might, the Wise." (Al Imran: 18)
Thus, Allah sent His Messengers and Books in order to establish justice and truth. The Exalted is He says, "we have already sent Our messengers with clear evidences and sent down with them the Scripture and the balance that the people may maintain [their affairs] in justice." (Al Hadid: 25). Allah ordered his Messengers to administer justice as He said to Dawood (David) pbuh, "O David, indeed We have made you a successor upon the earth, so judge between the people in truth." (Sad: 26).
Allah also commanded Mohammed pbuh to observe justice like when He says, "and if you judge, judge between them with justice. Indeed, Allah loves those who act justly." (Al Maedah: 42) In another Aya, He says, "but say: I have believed in what Allah has revealed of the Quran, and I have been commanded to do justice among you." (Al Shuraa: 15).
In this regard, a scholar said that the Messenger of Allah pbuh was instructed to maintain justice. And he did, so much so that justice became his approach. It is, therefore, Allah's balance on earth, with which the rights of those oppressed are defended against the oppressor, the weaker is supported in the face of the stronger and the aggressor is deterred. So if justice spreads amongst people, this is a proof of the religion and the path Allah that has ordered.
 O Muslims,
Allah the Almighty has commanded us to act in justice as He did to His Messengers peace (be upon them). He says, "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90). He also says, "O you who have believed, be persistently standing firm in justice, witnesses for Allah, even if it be against yourselves or parents and relatives." (An-Nisaa: 135). Allah has prescribed justice to be maintained in words and deeds, amongst all people and at all times. In fact, Islam commands a Muslim to act justly in dealing with all people, whether they were close to him or not. So neither should hatred make him unjust, neither should good ties make him a wrongdoer.
In this context, the Almighty says, "O you who have believed, be persistently standing firm for Allah, witnesses in justice, and do not let the hatred of a people prevent you from being just. Be just; that is nearer to righteousness." (Al Maedah: 8)
O Servants of Allah,
Please know that Islam is protected with a strong fort, which is Truth, and secured with a firm gate, which is Justice. Therefore, justice is abundantly rewarded by Allah as our Prophet pbuh said, "those who are just and fair will be with Allah, Most High, on thrones of light, at the right hand of the Most Merciful, those who are just in their rulings and in their dealings with their families and those of whom they are in charge."
Indeed, glad tidings to those who observed justice in their dealings. There are many ways for one to be just. One of them is by being fair towards oneself, accepts advice, remembers Allah, acknowledges rights and does not indulge in falsehood. On this matter, Ammar, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "three (qualities) who possesses them, he will be a true believer." And, of them, he mentioned, "being fair to oneself."
Other important aspects of justice are that a husband be fair to his wife and a wife be fair to her husband. In this regard, Allah says, "and due to the wives is similar to what is expected of them, according to what is reasonable." (Al Baqarah: 228). That is, women and men have obligations towards each other. They should not ask too much from each other, rather they must be fair and treat each other kindly. Likewise, one should be just to his children by treating them fairly, whether in emotions or in giving. The Prophet pubh said, "be just to your children in gifts as you also like them to be just to you in virtue and kindness." This way your family can ultimately enjoy the fruits of justice.
Being just in trade is also the basis for achieving people's welfare and happiness, as the Almighty says, "and give full measure when you measure, and weigh with an even balance. That is the best [way] and best in result."
On another note, employees should be fair in doing their job. They should duly discharge the tasks incumbent upon them in the same way as they want their rights to be fulfilled. A person should be just to all people he deals with by being good to them in words and deeds, as well as by treating them the way he likes to be treated. On this matter, it is narrated that one of the Prophet's pbuh companions once asked him, "inform me about that which takes me near to Paradise and draws me away from the Fire (of Hell)." The Prophet pbuh said, "worship Allah and associate none with Him, treat people the way you like to be treated and hate for others whatever you hate for yourself."
Thus, one should adopt justice as a way of life and be fair to himself, his family and society both in words and deeds. People should also appreciate the government's efforts in achieving justice and respect its laws.
With this in mind, may Allah make us all committed to justice and followers of the truth. O Lord, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).   
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Worshippers,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public, and know that being fair in arbitrating disputes is one of the greatest aspects of justice, for Allah the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah commands you to render trusts to whom they are due and when you judge between people to judge with justice. Excellent is that which Allah instructs you. Indeed, Allah is ever Hearing and Seeing." (An-Nisaa: 58)
Justice is the path for achieving stability of the homeland, happiness and welfare of people, cohesion between the ruler and his people, consolidation, cooperation and compassion within the community. A scholar once said, "a fair governor is better than abundant rain, and a land that is governed by a fair ruler will never suffer from drought. Indeed, to see rulers competing to establish justice is the best grace, indeed."
We praise Allah, the Most Merciful, for He has blessed us with wise leaders who adopt justice as a way of life and a foundation of governance. To this end, they issued laws, appointed judges and supervised courts affairs in order to ensure that justice prevails in the country. And as all admire the UAE leadership, they testify to its fairness and righteousness, pray for it to be blessed with ever success and continuous progress.
Please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and all his companions. May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah accept the martyrs of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Morocco and dwell them with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, please guide us to the right path and make us follow it, and also make our eyes wide-open to see the untruthfulness and help us avoid it, O Lord of Worlds. O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, "Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













