addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman and HAO's Head, said that all members of the UAE Hajj mission, as well as the pilgrims in Mecca are fine, noting that they were ready to move from Mecca to Mina for Yawm Attarwiyah (the day of quenching thirst).
The office is providing the necessary support to all campaigns and pilgrims through various committees that provide all means of comfort to UAE's pilgrims. "Facilities include setting camps at Mina and Arafat and equipping them with the necessary devices according to the highest standards of safety and security...," Dr Al Kaabi said.
Dr Al Kaabi stressed that the technical committees had fitted camps with the necessary equipment in accordance to the safety and security regulations. These committees held induction workshops for pilgrims about the safety and security procedures inside the camps as well as ways to handle situations of emergency arising from heavy rain or flooding. Moreover, specialist teams were trained on proper ways to address such emergencies in framework of a comprehensive plan to achieve pilgrims' satisfaction and help them perform hajj comfortably.
Dr Al Kaabi mentioned that the camps are equipped with advanced systems, fire alarm system, emergency exit doors and other facilities, noting that all Hujjaj Affairs Office (HAO) sub-committees are well-prepared. Each committee performs its assigned role according to pre-set plans, programmes and objectives.
Dr Al Kaabi explained that the UAE pilgrims' camps represent an integrated environment that reflects an excellent image about the UAE and its wise leadership. The UAE mission includes an elite preachers who give religious lectures about Hajj rites to pilgrims, answer their inquiries and provide them with Fiqh opinions, explained he.
Al Kaabi confirmed that the competent committees are fully ready to help the UAE pilgrims move from Mecca to Mina, according to a designated plan, especially with regard to transportation, welcoming the pilgrims in the camps, and availability of accommodation in Mina and Arafat camps, until the final rituals of Hajj, including Ramiye Aljamarat, exiting Ihram, and returning to Mecca.
 













