addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman and head of the UAE Official Hajj Delegation, asserted that UAE's 4,984 pilgrims returned back home with no reports of any health problems.
"We praise Allah, the Almighty, for the safe return of our pilgrims. We also extend our heartfelt gratitude to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates for their support, both moral and physical, to the Hajj mission. Their close follow-up motivated the delegation members to be up to their responsibilities," said Dr Al Kaabi.
"We would like also to extend our gratitude to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, HH King Salman bin Abdulaziz, and the Saudi government for sparing no efforts to surmount all obstacles and facilitate Hajj performance for millions of Muslims. We stress that the sad incident can't affect the invaluable services they afford to pilgrims. Such incidents normally occur amongst big crowds and history is full of examples," Dr Al Kaabi added.    
Service Availability
Mr Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, Deputy Head of the Official Hajj Delegation, affirmed that all the necessary services were offered to pilgrims in Mecca, Medina, Mina, Muzdalefah and Araft.
"Thanks to Allah and directives of the UAE wise leadership, pilgrims performed their Hajj rituals comfortably and returned home safely with no reports of accidents or illnesses. As usual, Awqaf  had ensured delivery of impressive services to pilgrims, hence translating the instructions of the UAE prudent leaders to harness all capabilities to serve pilgrims, including preachers, tents, food, medications, inspection committees, food, health and safety controls," Mr Al Mazrouei said, stressing that "Awqaf will strive to achieve further excellence in the years to come as well."
Mr Al Mazrouei noted that all Hajj campaigns and pilgrims adhered to Awqaf's safety guidelines and expressed gratitude to pilgrims for facilitating committees' work. He also extended thanks to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for its efforts to expand the Haram and provide transportation for pilgrims, particularly the Al Mashaaer train. 
Medical Services
For his part, Dr Abdul Karim Al Zarouni, Head of the Medical Committee, said that the pilgrims were in good health and had complied with the committee's recommendations. "Working according to the directives of the UAE wise leadership, the committee geared all capabilities towards serving pilgrims. This is one of the many services offered by the government to every person who lives in this country and is an extension of its services abroad," Dr Al Zarouni added. 
 
 













