addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
     First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Lords. He rewards His servants abundantly and guides them to be good doers. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to fear Allah and obey Him, as He says, "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (An-Nahl: 128). He also says "so give good tidings to My servants. Who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Az-Zumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Life is an arena for doing plenty of good deeds, earning abundant rewards and observing different acts of obedience that comprise all sorts of charity and good conduct. Indeed, Islam appreciates initiatives that bring hope to the needy people and also benefit others Thus, it regards such acts amongst the greatest charities. The Prophet pbuh said, "never does a Muslim plant trees or cultivate land and a bird, a man or a beast eats out of them but that is a charity on his behalf."
Allah, the Almighty, has granted us, in the UAE, countless blessings and ordered us to be grateful that He might increase his grants. He says, "and [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, 'If you are grateful, I will surely increase you' [in favour]." (Ibrahim: 7). Showing appreciation should be both in words and deeds, as the Almighty says, "work, O family of David, in gratitude." (Sabaa: 13).
To be grateful, one should acknowledge the favours of Allah and use them them in His way. Therefore, the UAE people have always thanked Allah for all His gifts and shared them with others. Indeed, the Exalted is He has blessed the UAE with stability, which is one of the greatest favours in the world, as the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "whoever among you wakes up physically healthy, feeling safe and secure within himself, with food for the day, it is as if he acquired the whole world." The UAE has always offered its wealth and children for the stability of its brotherly people. It launched several initiatives in order to bring hope to people and draw a smile on their faces, guided by the Prophet pbuh who commanded us to maintain hope and be dedicated to good work as he said, "if the Hour almost set while one of you are holding seeds of plant, he should still plant it.."
The UAE has always demonstrated boundless generosity in various fields, including showing special interest in education and students, embracing innovation, taking care of patients and helping the needy. All of these efforts were aimed at achieving development and progress for the good of people. Indeed, such efforts shall, by Allah's grace, be rewarded as He says, "and whatever you do of good - indeed, Allah is Knowing of it." (Al Baqara: 215)
O Worshipers,
Our blessed country has witnessed a remarkable progress in fields of education and knowledge which is reflected in building schools and universities and in attracting world-class experts and scholars. As a way of showing gratitude, the UAE builds academic institutions and supports education sector in other countries, in full commitment to knowledge which Allah sets as a criterion for mankind's elevation and advancement. The Almighty says, "Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Mujadilah: 11)
Other important aspect of UAE's generosity was controlling diseases in several poorer countries around the world. It established hospitals in those countries and brought them medication, humanitarian and relief services. Some of these efforts were part of initiatives, such as: "Our thoughts are with the people of Syria", "Reconstruction of the Gaza Strip", "Relief for Yemen", "UAE Water Aid", "UAE Polio Vaccination" to provide immunity for 17 million children, and "Clothing for one million needy children", among others. These campaigns echoed what the Prophet Yaaqub (Jacob) pbuh said, "and despair not of relief from Allah." (Yusuf: 87). These humanitarian efforts met the needy people's requirements, brought them hope and drew a smile on their faces. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "the people most pleasing to Allah are those most benefiting to others. And the acts most pleasing to Him are those which bring happiness to a Muslim, relieve his distress, pay off his debt or eliminate his hunger."
Indeed, humanitarian deeds like these demonstrate the value of compassion in Islam and its great role in building life and civilisation, as well as its positive impact on individuals and society. In this context, the Prophet pbuh said, "the merciful are shown mercy by Ar-Rahman. Be merciful on the earth, and you will be shown mercy from Who is above the heavens." As such, the UAE has become an oasis of hope and an example to emulate in terms of humanitarian work.
Indeed, glad tidings to those whom Allah guided to the path of goodness, so they spend from their wealth to help the needy and relieve the deprived, seeking rewards from the Lord of the Worlds. On this matter, the Almighty says, "those who spend their wealth [in Allah's way] by night and by day, secretly and publicly - they will have their reward with their Lord. And no fear will there be concerning them, nor will they grieve." (Al Baqara: 274)
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to grant us success in performing good deeds and benefiting Your servants. O Allah, may You provide us hope and help us to do good acts.
O Lord, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.       
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Worshippers,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public, and know that our nation is undergoing through a critical stage and facing massive challenges that hinders its advancement, such as extremism, wars, migration, poverty, illnesses and illiteracy. More joint-efforts are needed so that to rise above its failures, make good use of it strengths, restore its role in building civilisation and assume its contributions to the good of the mankind.
To this end, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minster of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, launched a global humanitarian initiative with the goal of fighting poverty and illness, spreading knowledge and culture, promoting moderation, tolerance and coexistence values, empowering community and driving innovation. It is designed also to bring hope to the Arab youth and develop a new generation of innovative leaders who will accomplish great achievements. Commenting on the initiative, HH Sheikh Mohammed said, "with all this work we seek nothing but Allah's satisfaction. Our Lord has blessed the UAE with many gifts and we show our gratitude with such acts that we will continue as long as we are alive." Allah says, "we feed you only for the countenance of Allah. We wish not from you reward or gratitude." (Al Insan: 9)
Please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and all his companions. May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah accept the martyrs of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Morocco and dwell them with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, "Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
O servants of Allah, remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













