addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He guides us to obey Him and orders us to refrain from what He has forbidden. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Mohammed is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to fear Allah and obey Him, as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab: 70-71).
Dear Muslims,
On the advent of a new Hijri year, we pray to Allah the Almighty to bless us with success and guide us to the right path. May Allah, the Most Gracious, continue blessing the UAE with stability and progress. O Lord, may we ask You to increase Your rewards to us, forgive our past wrongdoings and grant us success to do the righteousness. The Almighty says, "indeed, those who have believed and done righteous deeds - they will have the Gardens of Paradise as a lodging." (Al Kahf: 107).
O Servants of Allah,
Indeed, the migration of our Prophet Mohammed pbuh from Mecca to Medina (Al Hijra) was one of the greatest milestones in the history of Islam. It happened in its temporal and spatial context, for the Messenger of Allah said on the day of conquering Mecca, "there is no migration after the conquest (of Mecca)." The Prophet pbuh migrated to Mecca in order to rally support and protection for his call to Islam. So as soon as he succeeded in his efforts and Islam started to spread, migration was no more an obligation. Thus, those who wish to win the virtues and rewards of migration should perform worships, for the Prophet pbuh said, "worshiping during the period of widespread turmoil is like emigration towards me."
This means that worshiping during turmoil has abundant virtues because in such hard situations people would be preoccupied and might forget to observe acts of obedience. Glad tidings to those who are dedicated to obey their Lord, abandon wrongdoing and repent for their sins. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "an emigrant is the one who refrains from what Allah has forbidden." Therefore, there is nothing better than giving up all what incurs Allah's wrath. Indeed, this shall be the best migration. In this context, it is narrated that a man said to the Prophet pbuh, "O Messenger of Allah, which emigration (Hijrah) is best?" The Prophet pbuh said, "to leave what your Lord, the Mighty and Sublime, dislikes."
Dear Muslims,
The Prophet's pbuh migration has left us numerous lessons that may benefit those of vision. It demonstrates the splendour and glory of Islam as well as Islam's positive impact on people through its noble values and pious principles. On this matter, it is narrated that someone from Quraish described the Prophet's pbuh discourse by saying, "did you not perceive his (the Prophet's) good speech, rational advocacy and how he captures people's attention with what he says?"
Truly, this is the bright image of Islam that people have perceived. The Exalted He is says, "say, this is my way; I invite to Allah with insight, I and those who follow me. And exalted is Allah; and I am not of those who associate others with Him." (Yusuf: 108).
The Prophet pbuh, adopted tenderness and wisdom in calling people for good conduct in line with the Almighty's orders: "and speak to people good [words]." (Al Baqara: 83) Indeed, the Messenger of Allah came with a mission to spread mercy in the world, for the Almighty says, "and We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds." (Al Anbiya': 107).
Please know that Islam has been sent by Allah with a merciful mission, carrying welfare and justice to the entire humanity, spreading compassion and peace amongst people, protecting their lives, uniting them and clearing their hearts from hatred so that they might live safely and join their hands for the good of mankind. Our Lord says, "O mankind, there has come to you a conclusive proof from your Lord, and We have sent down to you a clear light." (Al Nisaa: 174).
However, in the modern age, one can see extremists who try to offend the tolerant values of Islam and distort its noble principles. In the name of Islam they commit all types of crimes, such as killing people, spreading hatred, destroying infrastructure, splitting homelands, and other crimes against humanity. Indeed, those are the farthest ever from the great tolerant teachings of Islam and the noble meanings of the Prophet's migration. 
O Worshipers,
On this occasion, there are plenty of lessons that we can draw from. One example is to rely on evidence and trust Allah in good and bad times. Indeed, with planning, optimism and good work, one can accomplish great achievements, surmount difficulties, advance and succeed various obstacles and challenges. The Prophet pbuh gave us an example when he left his home despite of all dangers, for he put his unconditional trust in his Lord and was assured that He would grant him victory. So when the disbelievers from Quraish reached the Prophet's hideout at the cave of Thawr, Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him, who was accompanying him said, "if any of them should look under his feet, he would see us." The Prophet responded by saying, "O Abu Bakr, what do you think of two (persons) the third of whom is Allah?"
The holy Quran has revealed this great position of our Master Mohammed for us to learn to trust Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, as he says, "if you do not aid the Prophet - Allah has already aided him when those who disbelieved had driven him out [of Makkah] as one of two, when they were in the cave and he said to his companion, "Do not grieve; indeed Allah is with us." And Allah sent down his tranquility upon him and supported him with angels you did not see and made the word of those who disbelieved the lowest, while the word of Allah - that is the highest. And Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise." (At-Tawba: 40).
This means that Allah, the Almighty, will grant victory to His Messenger Mohammed pbuh against his enemies and will prevail His word. Let us, therefore, pray to Allah to grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition and protect them. O Lord, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you to obey Allah as it ought to be by observing Him whether in private or in public and know that Islam's mission, that is stressed everywhere and at all times, is to spread peace and safety amongst nations. The Prophet pbuh has established such values when he arrived in Medina, for the first thing he said then, "O people, exchange greetings of peace, keep relations with your kin, provide food (to people) and pray at night when people are asleep and you will enter Paradise in peace."
Among other values that our Guide Mohammed pbuh advocated in the Charter of Media was the peaceful coexistence and the culture of tolerance. As such, HH the President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, issued an anti-hate law to eliminate any acts that might insult any religion, their rituals or sacred symbols. The law prohibits any act that would be considered as insulting to the holy books through any form, or as insulting to the Prophets, their wives or families. It also criminalises any acts that might insult or damage the houses of worship or graveyards and their contents. This law was decreed with the goal of safeguarding the unity of the community and emphasising the culture of coexistence and tolerance, for our religion urges us to demonstrate good conduct in treating all people, be it in speech or deeds. Islam calls for preserving stability, safeguarding all aspects of peace and prohibits all that might cause harm to people, communities and homelands. 
With this in mind, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, and all his companions.
O Lord, please guide us to follow the path of Your Messenger pbuh and benefit from his pure Sunnah. O Allah, may you grant us success to obey You and refrain from all what You have forbidden, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Forgiving.
 
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah accept the martyrs of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Morocco and dwell them with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth.
May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instance not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













