addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In accordance to its strategic plan to Emiratise positions of Imams, Khateebs, Muftis and preachers and in order to promote the joint efforts by Awqaf, Abu Dhabi Education Council and Ministry of Education, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, met with Emirati teachers of  Islamic education teachers at the auditorium of Mubarak Bin Mohammed School in Abu Dhabi.
In addition to supporting Awqaf's Emiratisation strategic plan, the meeting was aimed at encouraging those teachers to work for Awqaf on a reward scheme basis.
"We pray to Allah the Almighty to protect HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Supreme Council Members and Rulers of the Emirates. May we also pray to Allah to have mercy upon our martyrs who have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty while defending their religion, homeland, honour and the Arabs," said Dr Al Kaabi addressing the forum.
Thanking Abu Dhabi Education Council and Islamic education teachers for their effort to build the minds of the youth and promote their sense of belonging to the homeland and the ruler, Dr Al Kaabi addressed the audience, saying, "We share with you the mission of building the generations, developing the culture and protecting the youth from extreme ideas and trends. We are all working together to achieve the goals of our wise leadership in defending Islam, firmly establishing the culture of moderation and peaceful coexistence in the society as well as fulfilling our leadership's aspirations towards excellence, innovation and determination in facing the challenges around us."
Later, Dr Al Kaabi talked about the goals that called for this meeting. "Islamic education teachers play a key and sensitive role and we share together the mission of raising awareness, spreading social education,  preaching and anticipating the dangers that affect our religion, homeland and noble values. Thus, inasmuch as Awqaf's imams, Khateebs and preachers are required to pay utmost attention, Islamic education teachers are required to follow suit," Dr Al Kaabi underscored.
"Our wise leadership has been extremely generous and provided continuous support to Awqaf. Therefore, we are meeting with you today to seek your support with respect to emiratising the jobs of Imams, Khateebs, preachers, Muftis and lecturers at the UAE mosques in addition to your original work," Dr Al Kaabi said.
He then explained what qualifications an Emirati Imam and Khateeb should possess, what prepartions they should make and how Awqaf made it easy for them to work on a reward scheme basis in coordination with various UAE ministries and entities. Awqaf would welcome any Emirati national, who is holder of a doctorate or a master's or bachelor's degree, to work as Imam or Khateeb, he added, noting that Islamic education teachers would be a priority in this connection.
"Our country needs its citizens, their enthusiasm and dedication and as we are taught by our Sheikhs and rulers our vigor should be strong, our performance accurate and our intents noble, considering that they are examples of great generosity, perseverance and keenness on protecting the public interests and ensuring happiness of the society," Dr Al Kaabi said.
A question and answer session followed where teachers expressed their readiness to support the process of Emiratisation, particularly as Imams and Khateebs, even in return for no rewards.
In response to this sincere gesture, Dr Al Kaabi accepted to appoint interested teachers.
In addition to the Islamic education teachers at Abu Dhabi schools, the meeting was also attended by Awqaf's senior officials.
 
 













