addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A delegation from Awqaf led by Mr Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, the Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, visited Al Azhar in Cairo and held a round of talks to reach an understanding on the steps for implementing the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between both sides.
The visit comes in line with efforts to strengthen the distinguished relations between the prudent leaderships and the brotherly peoples in the UAE and Egypt and put the existing MoU into effect. 
During the visit, Mr Al Mazrouei met Al Azhar's Grand Imam, who praised the stances taken by HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and his judicious  leadership towards Egypt and its people, following in the footsteps of the founding leader late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan. "Such stances were always remembered and appreciated," he added.
"Al Azhar and Awqaf will continue to cooperate and coordinate through many activities, initiatives and conferences held in the two countries," the Grand Imam said, calling on the follow-up committees to implement the terms of the MoU within the timelines set.  To this effect, he would work for removing all the obstacles that may stand in the way, he said.
Commenting on the visit, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, said, "Al Azhar' methodology of moderate and scholarly thinking coupled with its practices, Fatwas, research and studies, preachers, Khateebs and curricula are in conformity with Awqaf's aspirations in keeping abreast with all developments in the contemporary age and producing an Islamic culture. The world nowadays needs to highlight the values ​​of Islam amidst accelerating variables that can be governed only by a deep rooted authoritative reference such as Al Azhar and similar religious entities. Therefore, more coordination and cooperation amongst such entities is a necessity."
The MoU calls for strengthening cooperation in the fields of Islamic affairs, dissemination of the culture and values of moderation and tolerance, consolidating loyalty to the homeland, renouncing violence and extremism and spreading the culture of the dialogue and coexistence amongst nations through common awareness and cultural activities.
The MoU also calls on the two parties to exchange expertise in fields of Fatwa, preaching, and practical and scientific research, in addition to exchange of research, studies, leaflets and scientific journals as well as publications in Quran sciences, Sunnah, Islamic Jurisprudence and other sources of knowledge.
 
 













