addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, visited many Quran memorisation centres in Abu Dhabi that Awqaf has equipped with necessary administrative, educational, financial and other services. Dr Al Kaabi was accompanied by Mr Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, Awqaf's Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, and a number of centres' directors.  
The tour came in light of the increasing interest in Quran memorisation centres amongst the public and in implementation of Awqaf's strategic plan, approved by the UAE Cabinet, and its quest to support memorisation sessions at mosques.
Dr Al Kaabi said that the Quran memorisation centres in the UAE received a special care by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates, for it is the primary source of legislation, guidance and development of language, moral and cultural skills of all participants from all age groups. "Being a value addition in enhancing Arabic language skills, those centres received special care by Awqaf when employing teachers or administrative staff, preparing useful curriculum or providing other logistic, financial and transportation resources," Dr Al Kaabi added.
"The Quran memorisation sessions conducted in a number of mosques across the UAE provide significant support to the busy Quran memorisation centres. And because of the growing interest by people to send their children to memorise the holy Quran and learn its interpretations and values, these sessions are currently being developed to become standalone centres in line with Awqaf's strategic plans to promote the values of moderation and tolerance in the community and keep pace with developments in the country," Dr Al Kaabi underlined.
During the tour, Dr Al Kaabi was impressed by the presence of young ladies, mothers, grandmothers and even nursing mothers with their children at the Quran memorisation centres. Another remarkable occurrence that drew Dr Al Kaabi's attention was the presence of some senior lady diplomats from a number of the Islamic countries' embassies in the UAE.
"Your interest in learning the holy Quran is highly appreciated, for whoever shows interest in Allah's book, Allah would be pleased with them and His angels would protect them and their families. Indeed, your efforts are appreciated and we thank those lady-teachers for their outstanding recitation," Dr Al Kaabi said addressing the female students. Later, Dr Al Kaabi listened to their suggestions and queries and promised to eliminate all their obstacles and to implement their constructive proposals.  
 
 
 













