addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf held a ceremony at the Emirates Heritage Club Theatre to commemorate the Hijra anniversary marking the new Hijri year 1437. The ceremony was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, Awqaf executive directors, a delegation from Al Azhar, and a host of people from all walks of life. A number of speeches were delivered addressing several topics on contemporary issues as well as lessons drawn from the Prophet's emigration.
Preacher Khalifa Al Dhaheri delivered a speech on behalf of Awqaf in which he said, "Awqaf would like to extend its sincerest greetings on the occasion of the new Hijri year to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates. He also expressed his congratulations to all of UAE people and the Muslim and Arab people, noting that the New Year calls for optimism with the signs it carries for a great Arab victory that would eliminate the falsehood of the oppressive and misguided groups and alleviate sufferings of the Arab nations.
"Dear Audience, as we celebrate a new Hijri year, our Arab world is undergoing distressing hardships where the misguided extremist groups are destroying its foundations, killing its people, abusing its sacred places and symbols and demolishing Islam's civilised heritage. So, woe to such groups for the crimes they commit in the name of Islam, forgetting that the Prophet pbuh has emigrated to Medina to settle and establish a civilised community characterised with tolerance, brotherhood and welfare," Al Dhaheri said.  
Al Dhaheri continued saying, "on this occasion, we would like to deliver a significant message that building an invincible homeland requires building a military force that protects its borders, interests and achievements, in line with the Prophet's pbuh approach whose companions were 'true to what they promised Allah. Among them is he who has fulfilled his vow [to the death], and among them is he who awaits [his chance]. And they did not alter [the terms of their commitment] by any alteration.' Indeed, so are our brave soldiers who are fighting for the oppressed rights in the brotherly Yemen as part of the Arab Coalition forces. Therefore, we pray to Allah to grant them victory." 
"Our pure martyrs sacrificed all that is precious in the way of truth. Hence, blessed are their efforts and pure is their blood, for they illuminated the history with their stances, achieved glory and victory and gave examples of pride and sacrifice. Let us, therefore, pray to the Almighty to bless them with His mercy and forgiveness," Al Dhaheri added.
Another message that Al Dhaheri wished to deliver in his speech was that peace and coexistence were the essence of Islam and that Muslim communities enjoy safety, dignity, true citizenship, justice, respect and reserved rights, citing the Prophet's pbuh saying, "a Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue and hands." On the same matter, Al Dhaheri gave example of Ammar bin Yaser, may Allah be pleased with him, saying, "three (qualities) who possesses them, he will be a true believer; spending from one's wealth, being fair to oneself and prevailing peace amongst people."
The third message Al Dhaheri mentioned was: "Hijra (emigration) is not abandoning one's homeland, but rather shouldering the responsibility of establishing a homeland of security and faith while relying on Allah in such enterprise." He cited Allah's the Almighty saying "but those who have believed and emigrated and fought in the cause of Allah and those who gave shelter and aided - it is they who are the believers, truly. For them is forgiveness and noble provision." Then he prayed to Allah to grant mercy and elevated the ranks for our pure martyrs and to continue blessing the UAE with security, welfare and prosperity under its wise leadership.
Meanwhile, Dr Mohammed Zaki Rizq, a scholar from Al Azhar, extended heartfelt greetings from Al Azhar Grand Imam to the UAE prudent leaders and people. He also addressed the blessed Hijra in his speech, focusing on the Prophet's pbuh efforts to build a civilised country that would have, today, become an example to emulate should Muslims preserve its principles, notion and goals. 
For his part, preacher Abdul Rahman Al Shamsi talked about Hijra and loyalty to the homeland, praising the sacrifices by the UAE soldiers in order to defend the Yemeni people's legitimate rights and asking Allah to grant mercy to its martyrs, stressing that they reflected the close relation between the UAE wise leaders and people.
The ceremony was concluded with a speech by Dr Abdul Rahman Abbas in which he addressed a number of the Prophet's pbuh attributes that should be followed so that our communities would enjoy security, stability and goodness.    
 
 













