addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He guided us to the righteous path and decreed all that is good for His servants. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Mohammed is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He advocated us to honour ties of kinship and urged for amity and compassion amongst family members and relatives. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to fear Allah and obey Him, as He says, "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (An-Nisei: 1).
The Almighty also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it. Those are the ones Allah has guided, and those are people of understanding." (Az- Zumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Please be aware that Islam highly values family and urges strong ties of kith and kin, because a well-cohesive family will undoubtedly be happier. A happy family means that all its members including relatives would cherish a friendly, compassionate atmosphere. Allah the Almighty says, "and of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquillity in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought." (Al Rum: 21).
Indeed, it was with affection and mercy that our Master Muhammad pbuh nurtured his happy and stable family and he was certainly the best model for us to emulate. The Exalted is He says, "there has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern." (Al Ahzab: 21). To this effect, the Messenger of Allah pbuh stressed that family should be the most worthy of one's best care, as he said, "the best of you is the one who is best to his family, and I am the best of you to my family." Thus, he pbuh had always been a good cheerful companion and treated his family with empathy. He used to return home after Isha (night) prayer and engage in a pleasant conversation with his family members before going to sleep. Indeed this shows that the Prophet pbuh was keen to keep good and strong ties with his family. As such, we should follow his steps by gathering with family members in an agreeable atmosphere, talking to and entertaining each other.
O Servants of Allah,
Please also know that mutual consultation amongst members of family, males and females, is one of the highly appreciated conducts in Islam. It consolidates understanding, compassion and interconnection. And it is a principle that Allah the Almighty guided us to heed concerning babies weaning as he says, "and if they both desire weaning through mutual consent from both of them and consultation, there is no blame upon either of them." (Al Baqara: 233). That is if both parents decide on weaning, on mutual consent and due consultation, there will be no blame upon them. Yet neither of them can have an exclusive right of taking that decision. So if such is the rule on weaning, then parents are expected to do the same on other important matters like educating their children, guiding them, teaching them good conducts, and promoting the value of loyalty to the homeland and the ruler amongst them.
Other important matters that require concerted opinion include encouraging our children to preserve the Emirati authentic traditions, observe their prayers, perform their duties and be sensible in using the modern technologies. All of this is in order to protect them from negative effects, as well as raising their awareness of bad companions, extremist and unacceptable behaviours. Indeed, parents are recommended to consult one another regarding all aspects of their children's life and future plans so that they might succeed in taking the most appropriate decisions.
O Worshipers,
Please know also that Muslim spouses are highly required to build sympathetic and harmonious relationships and make recourse to dialogue in solving family problems. This is a key to avoid conflicts, hatred and quarrels as well as protect the family against breaking apart. In this regard, the Almighty says, "and live with them in kindness. For if you dislike them - perhaps you dislike a thing and Allah makes therein much good." (An-Nisaa: 19).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "a believing man should not hate (his wife) a believing woman; if he dislikes one of her characteristics, he will be pleased with another." This means that a husband should not hate his wife because she has a quality that he dislikes, for she may have other qualities that may please him. At the same time, if a husband dislikes his wife, he should fear Allah and treat her in kindness. In this context, it is narrated that a man came to Al Hasan Al Basri and said, "I have a daughter who is dear to me and many men have proposed to her. I seek your advice on whom among them to choose to be her husband." Then Al Basri said, "marry her to a man who fears Allah; if he likes her, he will treat her in kindness, and if h does not like her he will not treat her unjustly."  
For their part, Muslim wives should always seek to reconcile and contain the disagreements with their husbands, if any, as the Messenger of Allah said, "shall I tell you who amongst your women would be admitted to Paradise? Those who were most loving, fertile, and helpful to their husbands; and those who, even if they were hurt would, go to their husbands with a helping hand and say: I swear to Allah not to go to bed until you were pleased. "  
 Indeed, such a pleasant dialogue would ensure the optimal environment for raising our children on principles of love and mercy, protecting them from risks of danger, guiding them to the right path, explaining to them Halal and Haram (lawful and unlawful deeds), teaching them dialogue etiquette and urging them to be steadfast in observing prayers.
Allah the Almighty appreciated his Apostle Ismail, peace be upon him, for taking care of his family. About him Allah says, "and he used to enjoin on his people prayer and Zakat and was to his Lord pleasing." (Mariam: 55). The Almighty also revealed to the Prophet pbuh: "and enjoin prayer upon your family [and people] and be steadfast therein." (Taha: 132).
 
To be able to raise your children well, you need also to sit with them, listen to them, be engaged with them, follow up their learning progress, know their friends, develop their skills and talents as well as encourage them to do all that is good for themselves and their community.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah the Almighty to help us be the key to all that is good for our families, the best guides to our children and the pillars of stability to our society. O Lord, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in the secret and in the open, and know that the UAE's wise leaders always take good care of their people and pursue their happiness. They also strive to achieve their people's aspirations and endeavour to raise generations capable of shouldering their responsibilities and performing their duties.
To this end, HH Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak (Mother of the Emirates), may Allah protect her, has recently launched a leading family-care initiative under the theme "Wise Family - Cohesive Society", with the goal of encouraging all entities in the country, families and other segments of society to communicate positively with their children, guide and educate them towards the ideal utilisation of modern technology and social network media that might become a real danger, threatening the family and the community.
Thus, it is our duty to interact positively with this social initiative in line with the Almighty's orders: "and cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al Maeida: 2).
With this in mind, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions. O Lord, please also bless our families with increased happiness and stability, protect our children from all types of wrongdoing and dangers and continue blessing our homeland with welfare and prosperity, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah accept the martyrs of the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Morocco and dwell them with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth.
May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instance not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













