addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Al Sayed Ali Al Hashemi, Advisor for Religious and Judicial Affairs to the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, have participated in the International Conference on "Religious and Cultural Pluralism and Peaceful Coexistence in the Middle East", in presence of UAE's Ambassador to Greece, Sultan Al Ali, held in Greece from 18-20 October 2015.
The conference's opening speech was delivered by the Greek President who addressed the role played by the old Greek culture in the Middle East and Europe, noting that it pursued transferring culture and peace to the entire world. He also referred to the current wars and crisis in the Middle East, including refugees and homeless people, expressing hope for the Middle East to restore its status as a land for security and peaceful coexistence amongst nations. He urged the participants to convey peaceful messages to the entire world and called for establishing an international observatory to monitor crimes that occur against humanity and document acts of violence and persecution.
During the conference, HE Al Hashemi and Dr Al Kaabi met with the Greek Foreign Minister in presence of UAE' Ambassador to Greece and Chairman of Hedayah Centre. The meeting discussed topics on the conference's agenda.
Dr Al Kaabi delivered UAE's speech in the conference in which he extended greetings on behalf of the UAE's wise leadership represented by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates.
"UAE's participation in the international conference comes in response to the caring initiative of HE Nikos Kotzias, the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs, at a time when extremism and terrorist groups are dominating the region trying to provoke intolerance amongst the existing cultures, religions and civilisations. Regrettably, some governments followed mistaken policies that encouraged sectarian strife, promoted hatred, ethnic, religious and sectarian discrimination, leading to bloodsheds, instability and displacement of a large number of people who became refugees across the world's countries, which in turn underwent the pressure of providing them with a safe shelter and meeting their immediate relief requirements," Dr Al Kaabi added.
"In light of these tragic developments and their catastrophic consequences, we meet today to explore means that best serve protecting the basic rights and freedom of worship for all religions and cultures in the Middle East and seed the values of peaceful coexistence, mutual understanding and respect for human dignity," said Dr Al Kaabi. 
Dr Al Kaabi then talked about UAE's experience in fostering the values of peaceful coexistence and dialogue. "Late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan has established the UAE on the principles of compassion, moderation, tolerance and peaceful coexistence. Although the entire Emirati people are Muslims, yet the country's constitution preserved religious freedom for all the residents on its land. To this effect, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, recently issued anti-hate law, which laid foundations for a global legislative culture that is conducive to supporting peaceful coexistence among the different cultures and civilisations. The law aims to safeguard human dignity, eliminate any acts that might insult any religion, their rituals or sacred symbols. It also criminalises any acts that might insult or damage the houses of worship as well as ethnic and religious discrimination, and urges for preserving the tolerant teachings of Islam in respecting people regardless of their religious or ethnic belonging. The law also prohibits discourse that provokes hatred, extremism and labelling other religious groups as infidels or unbelievers."
"As such, I invite all governments around the world to follow steps of the UAE in decreeing such laws to enhance values of tolerance and peaceful coexistence between religions," Dr Al Kaabi added.
"It is not surprising that the world's governments testified to UAE's unbiased policies, leaders' wisdom, global cooperation and support to the key humanitarian causes," underscored Dr Al Kaabi, explaining that on the internal level, people from more than 200 cultures with different ethnicities and religious beliefs are peacefully coexisting in the UAE and demonstrating full cooperation in order to achieve common goals of developing the country and serving the society, while enjoying freedom, security and peace.
"On the international level, the UAE attained leading positions in terms of humanitarian support to victims of global catastrophes and incidents out of the Emirati people's belief in humanitarian principles represented in relieving the distressed and helping the needy regardless of their religions, colours or nationalities. These humanitarian aids have benefitted Palestine, Syria, Yemen, Iraq, Afghanistan, Albania and Kosovo as well as the victims of earthquakes in Pakistan, Indonesia and other parts of the world," Dr Al Kaabi stated.
"To this end, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minster of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, has recently launched a global humanitarian initiative with the goal of fighting poverty and illness, spreading knowledge and culture, promoting moderation, tolerance and coexistence values, empowering community and driving innovation. It is designed also to bring hope to the Arab youth and develop a new generation of innovative leaders who will accomplish great achievements," Dr Al Kaabi highlighted.
Dr Al Kaabi also shed light on the UAE's several initiatives of promoting world peace, especially in hot areas. To this effect, the UAE sponsored a Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies which brought together world's leading Islamic scholars known for their moderate thinking and insight with the goal of discussing problems in areas of conflict where people are being killed and coming out with proposals that may extinguish these burning disputes, instil the culture of peace, eliminate extremist and terrorist ideologies and protect the societies against being subjected to war instigators and ideologies of sectarian hatred, Dr Al Kaabi noted.
Dr Al Kaabi concluded his speech by saying, "today, we need, more than ever, concerted efforts and exchange of experiences in areas of education, culture, media and legislation in order to counter all sources of the radical and extremist ideologies. We also need to nurture peace, compassion and security on regional and international levels and promote the values of mutual humanitarian interests advocated by the Messengers of Allah, peace be upon them, in order to protect humanity and disseminate the principles of peaceful coexistence, understanding and respect of human dignity."
 













