addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He revealed the Book (Quran) and has not made therein any deviance. He also provided relief and a way out for those who obey Him. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He sent down the Quran as a guidance and enlightenment to His Creation.
 I also bear witness that our Master Mohammed is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to fear Allah the Almighty and obey Him, as He says, "and remember the favour of Allah upon you and what has been revealed to you of the Book and wisdom by which He instructs you. And fear Allah and know that Allah is Knowing of all things." (Al Baqara: 231).
Dear Muslims,  
Please know that Allah has provided us with abundant lessons and admonitions in Quran. Each Surah in Quran has its beauty and wonder, glorious meanings, blessings and lessons. One such blessed Surah is Al Kahf (the Cave). Muslims recite this Surah each Friday seeking to get rewards and blessings from Allah and looking for the enlightenment it gives to its readers from one Friday to the next. The Prophet pbuh said, "whoever reads Surat Al Kahf on the day of Jummah will have a light that will shine for him from one Friday to the next." Thus, reciting Surat Al Kahf shall bring various merits and benefits. One of such virtues is that people who read it and follow its guidance, Allah will protect them from fitnah (temptation to wrongdoings), as the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "whoever memorizes the first ten Ayahs (verses) of the Surat Al-Kahf, (in another narration, the last ten Ayahs) will be protected from (the trial of) Al Dajjal (Anti-Christ)."
Surat Al Kahf was named so because it narrates the story of the companions of the cave and what happened to them. It includes abundant admonitions, benefits, meanings and unmatched guidelines that people need to remember and implement. As such, it begins with a warning for disbelievers and gives glad tidings to those who believe, for Allah the Almighty says, "to warn of severe punishment from Him and to give good tidings to the believers." (Al Kahf: 2).
The Surah ends with a description of the recompense of two groups; the wrongdoers and their punishment as well as those who did righteous deeds and their rewards. Indeed, those who obey Allah, He will be pleased with them and bless them with everlasting happiness, while disbelievers will incur Allah's wrath and will be the losers on the Day of Judgment.
Another important aspect of this Surah is that it advises us on the importance of the words of mouth and their consequential impact on the individual as well as on the society. The Exalted is He says, "grave is the word that comes out of their mouths." Indeed, uttering words without validating their truth or considering their consequences will certainly bring sufferings and troubles to those who said them as well as chaos to their societies. We need, therefore, to ensure not to say any information without being certain of their truth. On this matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "a slave of Allah may utter a word without thinking whether it is right or wrong, he may slip down in the Fire as far away a distance equal to that between the east and the west."
O Worshipers, 
Please know that Surat Al Kahf also urges us to maintain balance between pursuing one's own interests in this world and seeking Allah's pleasure in the Hereafter. So while working towards achieving a stable life and developing the society, one should ensure to follow the righteous path in order to be rewarded on the Day of Judgment. In this context, our Lord gives us an example of two men and their response to His favours. He says, "and present to them an example of two men: We granted to one of them two gardens of grapevines, and We bordered them with palm trees and placed between them [fields of] crops." (Al Kahf: 32). The man who was granted such bounties was so overwhelmed by his desires that he doubted that the Day of Judgment would ever come and said, "and I do not think the Hour will occur. And even if I should be brought back to my Lord, I will surely find better than this as a return." (Al Kahf: 36).
As for the other man, he had a strong belief in his Lord, so he said, "but as for me, He is Allah, my Lord, and I do not associate with my Lord anyone." (Al Kahf: 38). Then he gently advised his companion and reminded him of Allah's favours to him, saying, "and why did you, when you entered your garden, not say, 'What Allah willed [has occurred]; there is no power except in Allah'?" (Al Kahf: 39). Indeed, there is nothing better than showing one's gratitude to Allah's blessings and thanking Him for His favours.
O You who recite Surat Al Kahf,
 Please be aware that Allah has arranged for mankind on earth provisions to help them live in welfare so that they obey their Creator, be good to His Creation, spend from their wealth for charity and spread peace and compassion amongst people. The Almighty reminded His servants that they will be judged for their deeds, a record of which will be maintained, letting nothing small or great pass unnoticed, for He says, "and they will say, "Oh, woe to us! What is this book that leaves nothing small or great except that it has enumerated it?" (Al Kahf: 49). He also says, "man does not utter any word except that with him is an observer prepared [to record]." (Qaf: 18).
On the Day of Judgment, everyone shall be rewarded for their deeds. Thus, whoever worked hard and obeyed his Lord would win the highest ranks. The Exalted is He says, "indeed, those who have believed and done righteous deeds - indeed, We will not allow to be lost the reward of any who did well in deeds. Those will have gardens of perpetual residence; beneath them rivers will flow. They will be adorned therein with bracelets of gold and will wear green garments of fine silk and brocade, reclining therein on adorned couches. Excellent is the reward, and good is the resting place." (Al Kahf: 30-31).
Dear Muslims,
Another important thing that Surat Al Kahf teaches us is dedication in seeking knowledge and learning, which is related through the story of Musa (Moses) pbuh when he travelled for long distances to meet Al Khidr in search for knowledge. To this effect, Allah says, "Moses said to him, 'may I follow you on [the condition] that you teach me from what you have been taught of sound judgement?" (Al Kahf: 66). Indeed, Musa pbuh was one of the best knowledge seekers, with the best merits, who set the best example in devotion and humbleness. These qualities were reflected in Allah's saying, "[Moses] said, "you will find me, if Allah wills, patient, and I will not disobey you in [any] order." (Al Kahf: 69).
As such, a knowledge seeker should be patient and demonstrate ability to tolerate challenges associated with pursuit of knowledge. He should show utmost respect to his instructors in order to succeed in acquiring a good knowledge that will protect them from temptation to wrongdoings and misguidance.
In Surat Al Kahf, the Almighty also warns us from those who follow what is false and do what is wrong. In so doing, they badly affect their surroundings while thinking that they are doing good. In fact, this is the case with extremists who promote bright slogans and pompous words thinking that they are doing good work, but the reality is that they are corruptors. The Almighty says, "say, [O Muhammad], "shall we [believers] inform you of the greatest losers as to [their] deeds? [They are] those whose effort is lost in worldly life, while they think that they are doing well in work." (Al Kahf: 103-104).           
With this in mind, we pray to the Almighty to teach us what is good for us and grant us success to benefit from what we learn. O Allah, please help us to understand your Quran and be persistent on reading Surat Al Kahf. O Lord, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in secret and in the open and know that through the story of Dul Qarnayn Allah has provided us with an example of a leader whom He empowered on earth. He maintained safety, established justice amongst people, defended the rights of the oppressed and supported the weaker people, who sought his help. About them Allah says, "they said, "O Dhul-Qarnayn, indeed Gog and Magog are [great] corrupters in the land. So may we assign for you an expenditure that you might make between us and them a barrier?" (Al Kahf: 94).
Dul Qarnayn responded to their call and with no hesitation he rushed to rescue them, saying, "he said, "that in which my Lord has established me is better [than what you offer], but assist me with strength; I will make between you and them a dam"." (Al Kahf: 95). Thus, it is our duty to defend the oppressed against the oppressor, deter the corruptors, and protect our religion, homeland and honour. To this end, our wise leaders were keen to stand by the oppressed brotherly people of Yemen, support them and return the rights to their legitimate owners.
That is said, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Lord, please also guide us to adhere to Your Book and be among those who recite it, understand its verses and think about its lessons and admonitions. O Allah, may You make in Quran an evidence for us and a light for our path, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instance not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a need unsatisfied, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













