addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, visited Quran memorisation centres, including mosque sessions held in mornings and in the afternoons in Abu Dhabi.
Dr Al Kaabi said the tour came in light of the increasing interest in Quran memorisation at mosques amongst the public and in implementation of Awqaf's strategic plan, approved by the UAE Cabinet. It is also aimed to develop these centers and equip them with necessary administrative, educational, curricular and other services, Dr Al Kaabi added.
"Checking on the centres in other emirates is being conducted with or without prior notice according to instructions given to directors of Awqaf's nine branches across the country. Each of them will accordingly pay such visits and forward their suggestions and proposals to Awqaf headoffice in Abu Dhabi where they receive necessary support, follow-up and development," Dr Al Kaabi noted.
Dr Al Kaabi continued saying, "the UAE's wise leadership gives utmost care to promoting the principles of Islam amongst the youth, urging them to memorise Quran, recite it and understand it meanings. By so doing, they will refine their eloquence and rhetoric skills and achieve excellence. These centres receive support from our leadership since the era of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. Such support is continued by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates."
"Awqaf organises and supervises Quran memorisation centres across the country in accordance to a smooth educational methodology. Those centres receive special care by Awqaf when employing teachers or administrative staff, preparing useful curriculum or providing other logistic, financial and transportation resources. By receiving young students, adults and housewives at these centres, Awqaf aimed also to make it easy for them to learn Tajweed, memorise Quran and understand its meanings. As such, these centres have witnessed a growing interest amongst the public, leading to a need to develop them further. And such tours came within this framework," Dr Al Kaabi added.  
These tours played an important role in encouraging students. They were an occasion where  Dr Al Kaabi meet with learners and hailed their dedication to memorise Quran as well as follow its noble values. Dr Al Kaabi also listened to some of their recitations and proposals and extended his special thanks to the housewives who showed outstanding interest to learn Quran.
Quran memorisation centres and mosque sessions receive students from Sunday through Thursday during mornings and afternoons.
 
 













