addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Culture, Youth and Community Development, has stressed the need for concerted efforts by all cultural and educational stakeholders to develop the cultural sector and raise cultural and social awareness in the UAE so as to safeguard the national identity.
Sheikh Nahyan's statements came during the ceremony to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Ministry and Mohammed V-Agdal-Abu Dhabi University at the ministry premises.
The MoU is aimed to give access to library goers in the UAE better knowledge and information services through convenient, effective and innovative channels. It will also contribute to developing efficient measures, ensure quality of library outcome, expand the base of mutual benefit from human knowledge repertoire through participating libraries and ensure optimum utilisation of the library's financial resources.
"The ministry is striving to enhance the role of libraries across the country in helping individuals increase their access to knowledge in all fields," Sheikh Nahyan said, emphasising the ministry's commitment to developing library infrastructure and building a collaborative environment for offering ''the Emirates national programme for library management'', the first ever national synergy of libraries which aims to strengthen mechanisms for cooperation and integration between the ministry's libraries and other libraries and information centres throughout the UAE.
"Such Programme represents a national network and a quantum leap towards encouraging libraries to promote the culture of reading in implementation of the federal government strategy. Equally, it will contribute to create partnerships that have a real impact on reshaping the role of libraries being cultural and societal centres,'' Sheikh Nahyan affirmed.
His Excellency clarified that the MoU's primary goal is to lay down foundations for cooperation, joint action, exchange of expertise and experiences between the ministry and the university. He called on all the competent entities in the country to partner with the ministry in order to benefit from its initiatives, events and services offered for the public interest. He also urged libraries in the UAE to join the programme to boost such a national network.
For her part, HE Afraa Al Saberi, the ministry's Undersecretary, underlined that the MoU meets the mutual aspirations of the two sides in achieving continuous cooperation and partnership, as well as joint work based on collaboration and expertise sharing.
"Under the MoU, the Mohammed V University's library will be supported with a library integrated management system to allow easy implementation of its technical processes, including archiving, organisation, upload of bibliographical records and allowing their transfer to the ministry's library information system. The aim is to attain utmost benefits from the available records and achieve bibliographical and control of information channels in accordance to the relevant technical standards," Al Saberi added.
She also explained that the MoU will allow provision of consultation and training services, development of the librarians' skills in the field of library and information management, offering library related services to the public and enriching the university library's collection with new publications. Periodic field visits will be made to understand the librarians 'needs and ensure their commitment to the standards and methodologies followed in library related services, Al Saberi added.    
The MoU was signed by HE Afraa Al Saberi on behalf of the ministry and Dr Farouq Hamada, Director of the university, in presence of HE Dr Jamal Sanad Al Suweidi, Director General of the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research, Ahmed Al Hadabi, Director General of Libraries and a host of directors and employees from the ministry as well as a number of the university's higher management and academic staff.
On the sideline of the ceremony, HE Dr Al Suweidi gifted HH Sheik Nahyan a copy of his book "Al Sarab" (The Mirage), expressing his gratitude to the continuous support by HH Sheikh Nahyan to all aspects of the cultural sector in the UAE.
 
 













