addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of efforts to strengthen the distinguished relations between the prudent leaderships and the brotherly peoples of the UAE and Egypt and to put the MoU signed between Awqaf and Al Azahar into effect, a delegation from Azhar led by HE Dr Abbas Shouman, Al Azhar's Undersecretary, has arrived in the UAE.
The delegation was welcomed at Abu Dhabi International Airport by Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman and a number of the entity's senior officials.
Dr Al Kaabi greeted the delegation and hailed the historic efforts to spread the Islamic, Arabic and humanitarian studies by Al Azhar, its universities, institutes and other organisations under the leadership of Al Azhar's Grand Imam, His Eminence Dr Ahmed Al Tayeb.
"Al Azhar' methodology of moderate and scholarly thinking coupled with its practices, Fatwas, research and studies, preachers, Khateebs and curriculums are in conformity with Awqaf's aspirations in keeping abreast with all developments in the contemporary time and producing an Islamic culture," Dr Al Kaabi said. 
Dr Al Kaabi added that the world nowadays needs the values ​​of Islam to be highlighted amidst accelerating variables that can be governed and guided only by a deep rooted authoritative reference such as Al Azhar and similar religious entities. Therefore, more coordination and cooperation amongst such institutions is a necessity. Thus, the exchanged visits between Al Azhar and Awqaf fall within such an enterprise."
For their part, the delegation members expressed their gratitude for the hospitality they received and underlined the intellectual and spiritual insight that boosts the Islamic culture of moderation and tolerance. They also extended greetings from Al Azhar's Grand Imam to the UAE's leadership and people, hailing the great relationship between the two countries since the days of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan. They highlighted UAE's stances with the Egyptian people describing them as historic and a representation of noble religious and humanitarian values.  
The two sides held a round of talks to explore ways of bolstering cooperation in the fields of Islamic affairs, dissemination of culture and values of moderation and tolerance, consolidating loyalty to the homeland, renouncing violence and extremism and spreading the culture of the dialogue and coexistence amongst nations through common awareness and cultural activities. This can also be achieved through the exchange of expertise in fields of Fatwa, preaching, and practical and scientific research, in addition to support of Quran teaching entities. Talks also addressed exchange of delegations to attend programmes, conferences, seminars and other religious, national and cultural events held by both sides as well as exchange of research, studies, leaflets, scientific journals and publications in Quran sciences, Sunnah, Islamic Jurisprudence in addition to other sources of knowledge.
 
 













