addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Under the supervision of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, the annual meeting of Quran memorisation centres was held under the slogan "Together We Grow". The meeting gathered staff from Quran memorisation centres across the country.
During the meeting, Awqaf honoured the centres which excelled in implementing the educational campaign launched by Awqaf earlier this year to study a paper on the occupational excellence factors and requirements. Later a brainstorming session was conducted by Awqaf's institutional development department.
Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he hailed the unyielding support to the Quran memorisation centres by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Quran was laid down as a source of guidance and contentment for mankind. And together we want to translate such blessings into a mission and behaviours that leave a positive impact on the individual and on the society. Our youth is a trust in our hands, and therefore, we should raise them on the culture of moderation and compassion."
"Dear Quran memorisation centres staff, kindly be aware that you are part and parcel of Awqaf's organisational structure and we are all aboard the ship of a safe and happy nation. As such, we need to consolidate the sense of citizenship amongst people, preserve our identity and loyalty to our wise leaders and pay back to our beloved homeland. While so doing, we need to uphold Awqaf's mission and approach in promoting moderation, justice, tolerance and peaceful coexistence," Dr al Kaabi added.
"We want the Quran memorisation centres to be an oasis of piety and tranquillity, bringing together members of the community to learn the noble values of Quran," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Dr al Kaabi then expressed his appreciation of the efforts by the centres' personnel urging them to continue the march of development and to always conduct brainstorming sessions to come out with proposals that sustain such a progress.
Dr al Kaabi concluded with praying to Allah to have mercy on the founding father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan who laid the foundations of Quran memorisation centres in the UAE, noting that those centres add on his scale of good deeds. He also prayed to Allah to bless the UAE's leaders who give utmost support to those centres.
For her part, Ms Muna al Ghassani, Director of Awqaf's Religious Centres and Institutes, presented a paper in which she praised the UAE's leadership support to the Quran memorisation centres, underscoring the great efforts by members of staff in improving their performance.
Ms al Ghassani thanked Allah the Almighty for the elevated status of the Quran memorisation centres across the country and said, "the increase in the number of Quran memorisation centres, the growing interest it receives from the public, their developed structure and unique curriculums are a source of pride to us. It gives us honour to see citizens and residents make use of the religious and scientific education offered by our centres in complete harmony, organisation and transparency."
Later another paper on the keys to occupational excellence was presented in addition to a paper by the Human Resources and Administration Department on the incentives that could motivate Emiratis to work at those centres.      
 













