addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. To Him all thanks and gratitude is also due. He bestows boundless rewards to those who obey Him. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates.
I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to obey Allah the Almighty as He says, "indeed, the righteous will be in gardens and pleasure." (At-Tur: 17). He also says, "gardens of perpetual residence; they will enter them with whoever were righteous among their fathers, their spouses and their descendants. And the angels will enter upon them from every gate, [saying], "Peace be upon you for what you patiently endured. And excellent is the final home." (Al Raad: 23-24).
Dear Muslims,
Young generations, boys and girls, are the future of the nation, its hope and impenetrable fort. They safeguard its land and build its glory thanks to their open mind, fine thinking, pure hearts, strong arms and will and true faith. Indeed, Allah the Almighty spoke highly of some young people who believed in their Lord. About them, He said, "indeed, they were youths who believed in their Lord, and We increased them in guidance." (Al Kahf: 13). Islam has given much attention to the young people and instructed Muslims to provide them with good education and take care of them so that they become enlightened in their thinking, distinguished with their good conduct, adherent to their religious values and authentic traditions. With good education, they will be healthy in their bodies, believe in Allah the Almighty and be guided with His obedience.
Being as such, Allah will reward them abundantly and shade them by His shade, as the Prophet pbuh said, "seven (people) will be shaded by Allah by His Shade on the Day of Judgment when there will be no shade except His Shade. (They will be), a just ruler, a young man who has been brought up in the worship of Allah, a man whose heart is attached to mosques (offers his compulsory congregational prayers in the mosque), two men who love each other for Allah's Sake, a man who is called by a charming lady of noble birth to commit illegal sexual intercourse with her, and he says, 'I am afraid of Allah,' a man who gives in charity so secretly that his left hand does not know what his right hand has given, and (finally), a man who remembers Allah in seclusion and his eyes are then flooded with tears."
 This means that those who are raised on the worship of Allah, having passion to perform prayers in congregation, adorned with honesty and whose tongues are kept wet with the remembrance of Allah have truly taken shelter with Allah's obedience. In return, He shall shade them by the shade of His throne on the Day of Resurrection. And so blessed are they for such an honourable eternal dwelling.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that the youth who grow up on obeying Allah are certainly keen to benefit from their time while they are still young, following the Messenger's pbuh guidance: "Take advantage of five (matters) before five (other matters): your youth, before you become old; your health, before you fall sick; your richness, before you become poor; your free time, before you become busy; and your life, before your death."
Therefore, young people are required to seek knowledge persistently, making use of their strength in acquiring gems of wisdom and understanding, work hard to hone their skills and expand their experiences. In so doing, they seek Allah's satisfaction and reach higher stands amongst their community. In this context, the Exalted is He said to His Messenger Yahya pbuh (John), "O John, take the Scripture with determination." (Maryam: 12). That is, work hard and tirelessly to acquire it.
Indeed, thanks to their strong will and determination, the youth can surmount the most stubborn challenges. This is the case with Zayed bin Thabet, may Allah be pleased with him, who at a young age was asked by the Prophet pbuh: "Do you know Syriac?" He said "No." The Prophet pbuh said, "Then learn it since we receive letters (written in Syriac)." So, Zayed said that he learned it.
O Servants of Allah,
Please be aware that the young people are superior in their capabilities and energy. Thus, they are supposed to keep themselves busy with hard work. In fact, there is nothing prettier than combining the enthusiasm of the youth with the expertise of the elderly persons. Young people are highly advised to sit with the elders to learn more from their ideal values in speech and deeds. This way, they can grow up on the authentic traditions stemmed from the tolerant principles of Islam.
By so doing, they will also set exceptional examples in building civilisations and achieving remarkable results. Armed with Allah's guidance and religion's insight, they will spread knowledge and enlightenment amongst their communities. Yet this knowledge should be sought from the right reference-sources rather than through the Internet or social media.
It should be noted though that advice on religious matters should be sought from official trusted entities in the country. These institutions are overseen by scholars and people of knowledge. Allah the Almighty says, "so ask the people of the message if you do not know." (An-Nahl: 43). In this regard, Mohammed bin Sirin said, "indeed, this knowledge is faith, so carefully consider from whom you take your faith." By following this path, the youth will be able to reflect the civilised image of their nation. They will also be a source of pride and happiness to the community and an inspiration for generations to come. 
O Worshipers,
Please know also that the nation's aspirations depend on its young generation's efforts, strength and will. For that, if they are raised on the worship of Allah, the youth shall have enormous positive impact on their society by bringing welfare to their family as well as to their homeland. Here is the bright example of the Emirati youth, who have assumed grand tasks in various fields. We can see them fighting in obedience to their rulers, rallying around them, obeying Allah the Most Exalted, and seeking guidance from the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh. They strive to protect their homeland, obey their rulers, achieve victories, and sacrifice their lives in order to maintain the glory and pride of their Arab and Islamic nation.
The Almighty says, "and those who are killed in the cause of Allah - never will He waste their deeds. He will guide them and amend their condition. And admit them to Paradise, which He has made known to them. O you who have believed, if you support Allah, He will support you and plant firmly your feet." (Muhammad: 4-7).
Truly great and noble are those Emirati youth who sacrifice their lives and wealth in the way of their religion and homeland. They spend the night in safeguarding their nation, stay awake and vigilant so others can sleep and live in peace. For that they deserve glad tidings; such the Prophet pbuh gave to them when he said, "two eyes will never be touched by the fire of Hell; an eye which weeps out of Fear of Allah and an eye which spends the night in guarding in the Cause of Allah."
With this in mind, we supplicate to Allah to protect our youth and bless them. O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
Al praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, 
O servants of Allah, please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in secret and in the open and know that our blessed country has placed the development of its youth on top of its priorities. To this effect, the government has established the ministry of culture, youth and community development which is dedicated to enhancing the abilities of talented Emirati youth, organising their programmes and developing their potentials. Additionally, our wise leaders give the opportunity for the Emirati youth to join the national service because it is a noble mission that is conducive to consolidating the sense of belonging to the nation and loyalty to the leaders.
The national service teaches discipline, time organisation, enhances individual and team skills, reinforces respect to leaders and experienced people and strengthens the sense of responsibility towards preserving the nation's achievements. Through the national service, our youth will also improve their fitness, learn a healthy lifestyle, and acquire qualities such as enthusiasm, tolerance and self-confidence. Further, they will also be more prepared to carry out their duties in defending people's rights and deterring aggression.
Indeed, the UAE Armed Forces have given a praiseworthy image in assuming their duty. They provided an example for sacrifice and giving, bringing the UAE to a further higher status. Allah, the Merciful, the Most Generous, blessed among them men with His grace and granted them the elevated status of martyrs, as he says, "and if you are killed in the cause of Allah or die - then forgiveness from Allah and mercy are better than whatever they accumulate [in this world]." (Al Imran: 157).
That is said, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions. May Allah grant success to our youth and guide them to the righteous path, O Possessor of Glory and Honour.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, please forgive us all our sins for no one forgives sins but You. Please guide us to the best of manners for none can guide to the best of them but You. O Allah, please protect us from bad manners for none can protect against them but You.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













