addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf's departments, branches and institutes across the UAE has celebrated the national Flag Day and hoisted the UAE flag high on all its buildings in response to the call of HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, to celebrate the Flag Day.
Flag Day is celebrated on November 3rd coinciding with the anniversary of President His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan's accession to the presidency of the UAE.
Marking this glorious national occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, extended congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates and to the UAE people. Dr al Kaabi prayed to Allah to return this occasion to the UAE with continued security, stability and prosperity.
"This day reminds us of the UAE founders: the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan and his founding brothers, who chose this flag with its various colours, which indicate that the state has one approach and one reference and symbolise the meanings of deep love for this homeland, patriotism and loyalty to its leaders who safeguard our Union. They have laid down the path of our glory and established our civilisation. They placed the UAE amongst the countries known to the world for its advancement, prosperity and pursuit to ensuring happiness to its citizens and providing them with all the means of decent life," Dr al Kaabi said.
"For people, the flag is a symbol of pride, unity and affiliation. Thus, we are willing to sacrifice ourselves for those [who rally] behind it to live in dignity and contentment. Our martyrs who sacrificed themselves to defend religion, justice and dignity are the most convincing evidence that our people love this country, belong to it and are loyal to its leaders," Dr al Kaabi added.
"The UAE flag will remain high under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and will fly high in all international and regional assemblies as a symbol of Arab pride and an icon of support in international calamities and humanitarian initiatives. It will bear the connotations of love, tolerance and moderation as well as the power of belonging and loyalty to the wise leadership, who share cohesion and pride with its people, vowing to preserve the flag to remain flying all the way," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













