addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah for blessing us with Islam; a praise that is everlasting. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was sent with a mission of spreading mercy, peace, justice and compassion amongst people. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (At-Tawba: 119). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Az-Zumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that scholars are the heirs of the prophets because of their great role in raising people's awareness of Allah's ordains and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh. They correct the misconceptions and make clear the misguiding concepts. For this reason, the Exalted is He instructed us to seek their opinion, benefit from their knowledge and follow their advice. He says, "so ask the people of the message if you do not know." (An-Nahl: 43).
The people of the message are those scholars who disseminate knowledge about Allah and His Messenger, guide people to the righteous path and caution them from the path that leads to devastation. They enlighten the community about what is right and what is wrong.
 It is important to know that the most dangerous plague that can infect a community is when its members abandon the people of knowledge and follow the ignorant people who give Fatwas that are not based on knowledge. By so doing, not only will they go astray, but they will mislead others too. Indeed, those are the extremists, who are intolerant and ungrateful of others' favours. Their ideology is oppression, killing, transgressing people's integrity and robbing their property. They are seduced by Satan into thinking that their evil deeds are good.
About them, the Almighty says, "then is one to whom the evil of his deed has been made attractive so he considers it good [like one rightly guided]? For indeed, Allah sends astray whom He wills and guides whom He wills. So do not let yourself perish over them in regret. Indeed, Allah is Knowing of what they do." (Fatir: 9).
O Servants of Allah,
Those extremists are driven in their criminal actions and poisonous ideology by some hideous sources and approaches they follow. These fit into their ill-intention agendas and fulfil their objectives. Such perceptions see murders as Jihad and others' good deeds as corruption. Allah the Almighty confirmed that those people are corrupters by saying, "and when it is said to them, "Do not cause corruption on the earth," they say, "We are but reformers." Unquestionably, it is they who are the corrupters, but they perceive [it] not." (Al Baqara: 11-12).
Those who promote this extremist doctrine mix the truth with falsehood and exploit the youth's love for their religion. They manipulate them, persuade them to leave their homelands, rebel against their rulers and accuse their community of apostasy. In this, they claim that they are the only true Muslims and no one else.
Our Prophet pbuh dissociated himself from this kind of people when he said, "and whosoever from my followers attacks my followers (indiscriminately) killing the righteous and the wicked of them, sparing not (even) those staunch in faith and fulfilling not his obligation towards them who have been given a pledge (of security), is not from me (i.e. is not my follower)."
Following in the steps of the Prophet pbuh, we also need to renounce the extremist groups who distort the image of Islam which came with a mission of peace for the whole world. Those extremist thought promoters spread misery and sufferings amongst people. They tend to draw the youth to their fanatic incubators where the dreams turn into nightmares. Falling victims to such groups is a state of being trapped inside an inescapable prison where one will be abused and ill-treated. Thereupon, he will regret it, but only when it is too late to.
O worshipers,
These days, the concept of Dar al-Islam (House or Land  of Islam) has been frequently mentioned and with it attempts by the extremist groups to distort its true meaning. They use this concept to justify accusing Muslims of apostasy and attacking their countries.
Please know that Muslim scholars have defined Dar al-Islam as all those lands in which a Muslim government rules, or those countries where Muslims are the majority and can practice their religion freely and securely. This definition applies to the Islamic countries in our present time where Islamic rituals are being performed and Muslims are living in safety. To this effect, the UAE is a Muslim country, led by Muslim rulers who pursue all that is good, establish justice, glorify Islamic rituals and build mosques across the country. Quran memorisation centres were also established with the goal of spreading the moderate principles of Islam and where Quran and multilingual books about the true Islam are distributed.
Dear Muslims,
Please know also that, according to Islamic Fiqh, a non-Muslim country is referred to as "the house of treaty" with which we are bound to by international conventions and charters. In this respect, Allah, the Most Sublime, orders us to fulfil our commitments towards them, for He says, "and fulfil [every] commitment. Indeed, the commitment is ever [that about which one will be] questioned." (Al Israa: 34). He also talks in high esteem about His believing servants who do not break their covenants. He says, "those who fulfil the covenant of Allah and do not break the contract." (Ar-Raad: 20).
Additionally, our relationship with non-Muslim countries are based on mutual cooperation and understanding in line with Allah's instructions: "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another." (Al Hujurat: 13). In fact, this was the only Aya in Surat Al Hujurat in which the Almighty directs his speech to the mankind in general and not to Muslims in particular.
Throughout the past several centuries, Muslims have been interacting with other nations in order to meet many requirements. As such, we exchanged knowledge, culture and experiences. This brought abundant welfare and benefits to all.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to protect Muslim countries and their young generations. May Allah guide them to the righteous path and make them good for themselves, their kith and kin as well as for their homelands. O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in secret and in the open and know that we are enjoined to advise each other to fear Allah, the Glorious, adhere to the tolerant principles of Islam, strengthen our societal coherence, peacefully coexist with others and respect all those who are granted elevated ranks by Allah.
Thus, it is a duty to obey the ruler, consult the people of knowledge and teach our children to refer ideas to them so that they may evaluate it according to the righteous Sharia and make judgments on what is right and what is wrong. On this matter, the Almighty says, "and when there comes to them information about [public] security or fear, they spread it around. But if they had referred it back to the Messenger or to those of authority among them, then the ones who [can] draw correct conclusions from it would have known about it. And if not for the favour of Allah upon you and His mercy, you would have followed Satan, except for a few." (An-Nisaa: 83). 
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Lord, please protect our homeland, continue blessing our society with welfare and provide for us the beneficial knowledge. May Allah grant us success to do what is good and place in our hands the keys to good and mercy for all His servants, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
  O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
 
O Lord of the Worlds, please forgive us all our sins for no one forgives sins but You. Please guide us to the best of manners for none can guide to the best of them but You. O Allah, please protect us from bad manners for none can protect against them but You.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













