addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The last Hajj campaign using Abu Dhabi International Airport will leave on September 19 while the last campaign using Dubai International Airport will leave on September 17 with a total of 50 pilgrims each, said Dr. Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, adding that the Hajj system in Saudi Arabia would be closed next Saturday.
Addressing inquiries on joining non-Emirati Hajj campaigns, Dr Al Kaabi warned that such an act was in violation of the Hajj system and that the Saudi authorities barred entry of any UAE pilgrim coming through non-Emirati campaigns.
Dr Al Kaabi reiterated that citizens had been warned of falling victims to frauds by non-Emirati campaigns and that the Saudi Hajj regulatory measures prohibited any person from another country to perform Hajj unless a resident of that country.
Dr Al Kaabi urged campaign operators not to receive any pilgrims from outside the UAE campaigns as pilgrims from the UAE are starting to arrive into the holy places. He noted that strict measures would be taken against offenders and that places had been reserved for the registered individuals in order ensure that pilgrims perform their rituals comfortably.
He underscored the necessity for all campaigns to adhere to the regulations and instructions issued by Awqaf and the competent authorities in the UAE and Saudi Arabia, noting that committees inspecting the UAE pilgrims' accommodations had made sure that these are in accordance with the contracts. The pilgrims' lease and the transportation contracts had been examined, he added.
In an interview with Al Ittihad Newspaper, Dr Al Kaabi underlined that serving pilgrims was a great honour and a response to directives by HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates. This reflected the UAE wise leaders' quest to support the official Hajj delegation and provide all that would enhance the pilgrims' ability to perform their rituals smoothly, Dr Al Kaabi added.
"As excellence is a key feature of the UAE, according to the Cabinet's policy, the services provided to pilgrims are improving year after year," Dr Al Kaabi noted.
The efforts of the Hajj mission were comprehensively developed this year, particularly through increasing the number of specialised personnel in the committees concerned with serving pilgrims. New unique services also included securing all of the mission's offices with sophisticated surveillance cameras and electronic systems in order to enhance transparent entry and exit of pilgrims in camps and the delegation's offices, Dr Al Kaabi said.
He added that a team of preachers had accompanied the mission to answer pilgrims' queries related to Hajj rites.
 













