addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Islamic Affairs has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Dubai's Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department (IACAD) to unify Fatwas, coordinate Fatwas relative to state public affairs , take part in preparing and selecting Friday sermons and themes, as well as require mosque Khateebs to adhere to the approved sermons. The two parties will also work together to support religious programmes and charitable activities. 
The MoU was signed by Awqaf Chairman, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, and Dr Hamad Bin Al Sheikh Ahmed Al Shaibani, IACAD Director General.
The MoU urged for enhancing cooperation, participation in the religious and charitable conferences and events, jointly nominating scholars, HH the UAE President's guests in the holy month of Ramadan, and requiring Khateebs to keep to the approved sermon as per their three types: the Khateebs who can improvise and are unrestricted to the title of the sermon, Khateebs who are committed to the topic the sermon, but they can improvise and the Khateebs who must stick to the written sermon. The sermon will be aired live alternatively from one emirate to another on a weekly basis and as per the plan made to this effect.
According to the agreement, Awqaf and IACAD will coordinate concerning the annual preaching plan, which comprises Friday sermons, lessons and religious activities, its programmes and events. They will also agree on nominations for giving lectures inside and outside the UAE.
Dr al Kaabi said, "we seek through this MoU exchanging administrative and religious expertise in fields of developing the Holy Quran Memorisation Centres as well as unifying their lessons, coordinating efforts in selecting Quran tutors and upgrading their skills. We also seek to sponsor events, programmes and activities, provide as much media coverage as possible, regularly exchange relevant releases and studies and coordinate with respect to audiovisual and written preaching and Fatwa programmes and the preachers likely to be hosted in them.
"We will provide Dubai Government's official Hajj mission visas as per the quota granted annually to the UAE official mission and we will list administrative staff from the IACAD in the said official mission. We will also work together to implement the Cabinet decision no. 39 for 2012 with respect to the system of maintaining UAE mosques"
For his part, Dr Al Shaibani hailed the deep relationship between the two entities, underlining the common objectives both are seeking to achieve in order to serve Islam and those concerned with conveying its message in a friendly manner, with peace, knowledge and in the best ways.
 
 
 
 
 
 













