addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf listed Eid prayer Musallahs and mosques per each emirate and also assigned a main Khateeb and a substitute for emergency cases. The identified prayer areas have taken into account the number of worshippers.
With the exception of Dubai, there are as many as 1,035 fully equipped mosques and prayer areas that are ready to receive people to perform the Eid prayer in spiritual and faith-based atmospheres. Awqaf has also appointed Khateebs for each prayer area or mosque in which the Eid prayer will be performed.
On this occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, extended his sincerest greetings and blessings to HH Sheikh bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates as well as to the UAE people and residents.
Dr Al Kaabi said that in cooperation with the concerned entities, Awqaf prepared the Eid prayer areas, proactively furnished and made them ready for receiving worshippers.
"All preparations have been completed for Eid Al Fitr prayers to be performed in all the prayer areas across the UAE, while municipalities are doing their utmost to complete the necessary maintenance for the remaining prayer areas in coordination with the competent authorities to ensure the comfort of worshippers," Al Kaabi said.
Dr Al Kaabi said Awqaf has issued lists of mosques and their locations in each emirate together with the names of Khateebs and substitute Khateebs, noting that the Eid prayer in Abu Dhabi would be performed in 140 mosques this year.
Meanwhile, Awqaf branch in Ras Al Khaimah yesterday approved 77 praying areas for the Eid Al Fitr prayer to be performed across the emirate, including 55 prayer areas and 22 mosques.
Mr Mohammed Obeid Al Mazrouei, Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, said Awqaf coordinated with the Public Works Department in the emirate in order to clean and maintain mosques and prepare amplifiers before Eid Al Fitr.
 













