addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The brainstorming sessions organised by Awqaf have emphasised that the upcoming stage is extremely important and demands concerted efforts for confronting extremist and distorted ideas. This is in order to prevent the society from local or regional intellectual deviations and allow it to stand in the face of all organisations and groups that exploit religion under any cover.
The participants in the retreat have unanimously agreed that Awqaf and its entire staff including Imams, preachers and Khateebs have a lot to do and offer. They also agreed that the nation expects Awqaf staff to highlight the real image of Islam away from reprehensible extremism and alienation as well as to achieve the UAE's wise leadership's vision for the progress and prosperity of the country in all fields.
Awqaf held the 2-day brainstorming sessions in Sir Bani Yas Island with the participation of Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, Awqaf executive directors, department and branch directors across the UAE.
Opening the brainstorming session, al Kaabi highlighted the objectives, aspirations and productive initiatives, reviving the memories of what this island suggested and why it had been chosen. It was the civilised genius of the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan that stood behind this island and rendered it a natural sanctuary with trees, plants and various species of animals that used to live in the Arabian Peninsula.
"This is what Awqaf is seeking. We are gaining from this sessions what will prompt us to upgrade our performance and seek unprecedented level of innovation and excellence as a cultural and Islamic reference authority." Dr al Kaabi said.
Al Kaabi praised the prudent leadership's ongoing support for all Awqaf's projects and strategic plans which made of it a leading entity by all accounts, thanks to the limitless support of HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Supreme Council members and Ruler of the Emirates.  The first brainstorming session dealt with the participants' vision and aspirations for 2021.
Participants made suggestions and outlined their visions, aspirations and ambitions coupled with ideas and solutions. They expressed their hope that Awqaf would come in the first place worldwide in a number of initiatives and practices that included having a prospective vision as well as the tools and mechanisms needed to confront challenges while further detecting and addressing the intellectual and behavioural deviations locally, regionally and globally. This can be achieved by promoting moderation in media, conferences, seminars, smart technology, solemn Fatwas and mosque's lessons based on the values of religion and developments of the present time.
The participants unanimously agreed that these sessions were an innovative idea derived from the prudent leadership's visions and that the place where they were held would suggest that nothing is impossible and that the existing situation can be changed into a better and more productive one, considering that this island needed considerable time and effort to make it vibrant. They also agreed that these sessions would contribute to a great extent to a better understanding of the needs of each department or section and put everybody in the picture. Agreeing unanimously on the importance of these sessions, which promoted cohesion and solidarity, the participants thanked Awqaf's chairman for such innovative initiative.
 
 
 
 













