addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
 All praise is due to Allah, the Most Giving, and the Best Appreciative. He ordained his servants to commit to their covenants. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He is the best example in commitment and the Imam of all believers. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to obey Him, the Almighty, for He says, "but yes, whoever fulfills his commitment and fears Allah - then indeed, Allah loves those who fear Him." (Al Imran: 76).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that loyalty is an essential part of a Muslim's good conducts and among the best praised merits. In evidence to its important status, Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, associates it to Himself as He says, "and who is truer to his covenant than Allah?" (At-Tawba: 111). The Almighty has also instructs us to fulfill the promises we give when He said, "and the covenant of Allah fulfill. This has He instructed you that you may remember." (Al Anaam: 152). Thus, commitment is amongst the signs of truthfulness and piety. Allah, the Exalted is He, talks in high esteem about those who fulfill their promises, as He says, "[those who] fulfill their promise when they promise; and [those who] are patient in poverty and hardship and during battle. Those are the ones who have been true, and it is those who are the righteous." (Al Baqara: 177).
It is good also to know that fulfillment of obligations is amongst the lofty qualities of prophets and pious people. In this respect, Allah, the Almighty, says about His Messenger Ibrahim (Abraham) pbuh, "and [of] Abraham, who fulfilled [his obligations]." (An-Najm: 37). Additionally, commitment was associated by Allah, The Most Exalted, with the people of understanding, wisdom and insight, for He says, "they will only be reminded who are people of understanding those who fulfill the covenant of Allah and do not break the contract." (Ar-Raad: 19-20). It is also a quality of the best of people, reflecting their true character and honest attitude. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "the best of people for Allah on the Day of Judgment are those who fulfill their covenants and do all that is good."
Allah the Almighty places commitment in a high rank in order to ensure that people treat each other in good. He instructs us to fulfill our promise as He said, "indeed, the commitment is ever [that about which one will be] questioned. And fulfill [every] commitment." (Al Israa: 34). 
O Worshipers,
There are several ways and fields where to show loyalty in our daily life, the first of which is fulfillment of the promise of Allah the Almighty. He enjoins upon us to do so, for He says, "did I not enjoin upon you, O children of Adam, that you not worship Satan - [for] indeed, he is to you a clear enemy. And that you worship [only] Me? This is a straight path." (Yasin: 60-61). On the same matter, the Messenger pbuh set for us a great example in commitment towards Allah the Most Exalted by obeying Him, admitting His favours and showing gratitude to Him. As such, he informed the message and left us a great religion.
Loyalty to the Prophet pbuh can be done by loving him, saying blessings upon him, following his Sunna and conducts in words and deeds. Allah says, "there has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern." (Al Ahzab: 21).
Another aspect of showing commitment is the devotion to the nation. This can be done by safeguarding its land and achievements, maintaining its integrity, striving to serve its higher interests and development. The Prophet pbuh used to long for his homeland whenever it had been mentioned, a sign and a quality of the loyal people only. In this respect, Al Asmaei said, "if you wish to know a man's commitment to his promise, see his longing to his homeland."
Yet another great type of commitment is the loyalty to the ruler, for rulers devote their time and efforts to bring happiness to their people and stability to the country. Under their leadership, the country prospers and enjoys welfare. Therefore, people will pray for Allah's blessing to be upon them. The Prophet pbuh said, "the best of your rulers are those whom you love and who love you, who invoke God's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them." That is, you pray for them and they pray for you.
Obedience to parents is a further form of commitment. One should treat them kindly, pray for them, fulfill their promises and keep ties of kith and kin. On this matter, it was reported that Saad bin Obada sought the Prophet's pbuh advice on a decision about a vow taken by his mother who had died. The Messenger pbuh said, "fulfill it on her behalf."  Abdullah bin Omar bin Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with them, also reported that a Bedouin met him on the way to Mecca. 'Abdullah greeted him and mounted him upon the donkey on which he had been riding and gave him the turban that he had on his head. When Abdullah was asked to why he gave him the turban, he said: "His father was loved dearly by Omar bin Al Khattab, and I heard Allah's Messenger pbuh as saying, "the finest act of goodness on the part of a son is to treat kindly the loved ones of his father."
The most beautiful type of commitment is that which exists between spouses. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh set us a great example as he had been loyal to his wife Khadijah, may Allah be pleased with her, during her life and after her death. He used to remember her in good, mention her merits and gift her friends. It was reported that Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "whenever he slaughtered a sheep, he would send her female friends a good share of it."
O Servants of Allah,
 Please know that people cannot do without loyalty. They are bound to deal and cooperate with one another. Any cooperation can be done only through fulfillment of covenants and promises. Allah the Almighty says, "O you who have believed, fulfill [all] contracts." (Al Maida: 1).
The Prophet pbuh was genuinely keen to fulfill his promises and he urged for repayment of one's debts. He said, "whoever takes the money of the people with the intention of repaying it, Allah will repay it on his behalf, and whoever takes it in order to spoil it, then Allah will spoil him." Thus, Muslims have been throughout history committed towards each other as well as towards non-Muslims in words and in deeds. This has been materialised in their daily lives and commercial transactions, a matter which had positively reflected on them and helped them spread the religion of Islam far and wide. 
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to make us amongst your committed servants. O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
O Servants of Allah,
Among the first things you need to advise each other about is obedience to Allah and having loyalty. Indeed people of loyalty shall receive great reward from their Lord. In this regard, the Almighty says, "and he who fulfills that which he has promised Allah - He will give him a great reward." (Al Fath: 10). Allegiance has the merit of strengthening the bond and cooperation amongst people in all fields of life. Therefore, whoever has loyalty one of his morals and characters has indeed obeyed Allah the most Exalted and followed his Messenger pbuh.
That is said, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Allah make us amongst those who respect the covenants and fulfill the promises and grant us the Paradise, O the most Compassionate, the Loving One.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, please forgive us all our sins for no one forgives sins but You. Please guide us to the best of manners for none can guide to the best of them but You. O Allah, please protect us from bad manners for none can protect against them but You.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













