addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The 25th International Conference of Egypt's Ministry of Awqaf has honoured the UAE for its key role in combating extremism and debunking the ideas embraced by extremists and terrorists all over the world and also for its leading role in promoting Islamic charitable activities with the aim of bolstering the image of Islam globally.
On behalf of the Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Al Sisi, the Egyptian Minister of Awqaf Mohammed Mukhtar Juma has handed certificates of appreciation over to the UAE honoured people for their role in serving Islam in particular and humanitarian issues in general.
The honoured people included Mr Ali al Hashemi, the Religious and Judicial Affairs Advisor to the UAE President, whose certificate was received on his behalf by Mr Mohammed Abu Hamad, HE Mohammed Bin Obeid al Mazrouei, the Executive Director at the Awqaf, and Dr Jamal Sanad al Suwaidi, the Director of the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research.
Following the honouring ceremony, Juma affirmed that honouring three personalities from the UAE underlined the key role undertaken by the UAE's wise leadership in serving Arab and Islamic matters.
"Egyptians will never forget the major role of the UAE in supporting Egypt following the revolution that toppled the terrorist Muslim Brotherhood Group's regime. Had the UAE not supported Egypt and the Egyptians, Egypt would have never been able to overcome many of the adversities that it experienced after overthrowing the Muslim Brotherhood president", Juma said.
Meanwhile, during the second day of the conference, Juma said terrorism was supported by global intelligence agencies with the aim of dismantling the region and its Arab countries, noting that Egypt and the Arab countries were paying dearly for confronting terrorism.
Stressing the need for establishing a real bloc and launching military strikes against the hotbeds of militant groups as part of comprehensive operations against all forces of violence and extremism all over the world, Juma pointed out that it would not be wise to strike the terrorist forces in Iraq and Syria and ignore the terrorist groups in Libya, hence enabling them to continue to threaten Egypt's security.
Juma underscored the need for the world to confront terrorism seriously and comprehensively, rather than in selective matter. He noted that the working papers and recommendations of the Luxor Conference refuted categorically the misguiding Fatwas of the forces of violence and extremism.
"Egypt including Azhar, Awqaf and scholars stand against extremist terrorist ideology and seek to eradicate terrorism in all countries of the world," he said, highlighting the fact that nobody is immune from the threat of terrorism and that terrorism backfires. He also reminded the participants that terrorists use social media to mobilise the youth in collaboration with global intelligence agents.
The ministers of Awqaf, Muftis and scholars called for a new Arab, Islamic and global bloc to confront terrorism. Meanwhile, the participants in the conference, which was held under the banner "Viewpoint of Imams and scholars for renewing the religious discourse and confronting extremist ideology", criticised what they described as selective strikes against terrorism strongholds and regarded the blasts that took place in France as painful and tragic.
They also stressed that preaching and guidance activities and Fatwas should be restricted to specialist scholars only. Additionally, they said sermons should be delivered only in mosques and also should be unified.
 













