addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Official Fatwa Centre received and responded to 22,000 fatwas within the first week of Ramadan. The fatwas were answered by expert religious scholars, who are qualified to issue fatwas, and who took turns to answer all the fatwas during this period, including on weekends. The subjects of the fatwas were relevant to matters of worship and business transactions. The centre further received 18,250 phone calls requesting fatwas about topics related to worship, transactions, family, and women.
The fatwas on worship had the lion's share, with 7567 fatwas. The centre replied to 4100 fatwas through SMS. Muftis took turn in receiving and replying to fatwas. The Iftaa' Department collaborated with the Abu Dhabi Quran Radio Station in "Yastaftoonak" (They ask you for fatwa) show. The Iftaa' Department further translated the provisions, rules and fatwas of fasting, which have been replied to through the centre so that non-Arabic speakers can benefit from them. The department also publishes the fatwas through English speaking papers to educate non-Arabic speakers about them. Awqaf has provided the fatwas service through the Official Fatwa Centre, which offers three main services: the Fatwa toll free number (8002422), which is available from 8:00 AM to 8 PM during working days. The service is available in Arabic, English and Urdu. Muftis answer queries regarding matters relative to worship and creed, social relations, business transactions, family relations and women issues.
The centre also offers the Fatwa SMS service (2535), which allows the public to send questions from their mobile phones through an SMS that does not exceed 200 characters for each text message, from 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM during regular working days. SMS received after working hours shall be answered in the next 24 hours. The third service offered by the centre is Al-Murshid Al Amin, the e-Fatwa service on www.awqaf.gov.ae, which allows the public to send their questions and fatwas around the clock. It also provides written and direct fatwas. 
The objectives of the Official Fatwa Centre are: to unify and regulate Fatwa practices in the UAE; to protect Muslims from improvised or false Fatwas; to establish direct contact between the community and Islamic law scholars; to enhance religious awareness and instil the Islamic concepts of moderation and tolerance; to learn more about the community's needs, and help people resolve their problems in compliance with Islamic Sharia.
Awqaf has set the guidelines for the Official Fatwa Centre to include the following: to ensure that the Fatwa Centre benefits the UAE, its prudent leadership, its citizens and residents; to abide by Awqaf's regulations and instructions, and help achieve its vision and mission; to keep records of all queries and answers; to follow the Maliki Madhab (the official school of Islamic law in the UAE) in all issues relating to the matters of worship, and consider the said school a priority in other Fatwas depending on each case in question; to follow the Fatwas issued by other Islamic jurisprudential assemblies concerning various contemporary issues; to use leniency and easiness in all Fatwas and avoid immoderation and sternness; to avoid sectarian, religious and political controversies; to maintain good ethics and conduct and serve as a role model for the community; and to be aware of the mission of the Muftis and undertake their responsibilities in due form.
 
 













