addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed, the UAE Foreign Minister, and Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, the UAE Minister of Culture, Youth and Community Development, attended an event entitled themed "Love and Loyalty to Zayed the Benevolence" held at the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque on the occasion of the 11th anniversary of the passing of Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.
The evening was sponsored by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, in collaboration with the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre in Abu Dhabi along with Awqaf on the occasion of the Zayed Humanitarian Work Day. It was attended by the scholar Shaikh Abdullah bin Bayyah, the President of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and a host of senior officers and Awqaf's executive directors and employees.
In his opening speech, themed "Zayed: the Humanitarian Leader", Dr Al Kaabi said that the event comes in recognition of Sheikh Zayed's accomplishments and is a reminder to generations of his noble values and cultural achievements, as well as his stature nationally, regionally and globally. It is also a renewal of the oath of allegiance and loyalty to UAE's wise leadership represented by HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammad Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Supreme Council Members and Rulers of the Emirates, Dr Al Kaabi added.
"Today, we commemorate with respect to and admiration of late Sheikh Zayed everlasting stances that constitute live lessons for the generations to come. He had a positive contribution to every facet of life in the UAE where this humanitarian leader's achievements touched every living creature," Dr Al Kaabi said.
Dr Al Kaabi noted that Sheikh Zayed's humanitarian dedication has rooted love and happiness in the hearts of people and inspired the value of close relationship between leaders and people. His humanitarian work left a sense of humanity in the hearts of the needy and distressed people around the world, bringing the UAE to a globally leading position in terms of humanitarian contributions, Dr Al Kaabi added.
For his part, the scholar Abdullah bin Bayyah underscored that in our contemporary age, the youths needed integrity, particularly with the spread of offensive words under the name of faith and Islam, citing some writers publishing such words in an act of slander. 
"On this occasion, we must remind people with the values and principles of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, promote them amongst our children and instil them for the generations to come. Sheikh Zayed, may Allah have mercy on him, also promoted peace and transformed the UAE to an oasis of peace and united people with his good words. Peace and integrity were two unique qualities of the late Sheikh Zayed," bin Bayyah added.
Meanwhile, other dignitaries who attended the event commemorated Sheikh Zayed's great qualities and acts. Dr Abdul Fattah Abdul Ghani Al Awari, Dean of the Faculty of Islamic Theology at Cairo University, delivered a speech titled "Zayed and Global Peace" in which he highlighted Sheikh Zayed's heroic stands during the Arab-Israeli October War and his well-known statement that "Arab oil is not more precious than Arab blood."
In his address, Shaikh Mohammed Abdul Rahim Sultan Al Olama, Member of Dubai's Senior Scholars Authority, highlighted Sheikh Zayed's care given to education and his achievements in this regard.
In the meantime, Shaikh Abdul Latif Derian, Lebanon's grand Mufti, stressed in his address that Sheikh Zayed always valued mankind and called for peace, tolerance and compassion following the teachings of Islam, while the Islamic Scholar, Hamza Yusuf Hanson, addressed Sheikh Zayed's interest in environment.
 
 
 













