addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of the celebration held by Awqaf on Zayed Humanitarian Work Day, Dr Abdul Fattah al Awari, Dean of the Fundamentals of Religion, al Azhar University, delivered a speech in which he talked about Sheikh Zayed and world peace.
Al Awari He said: "Our nation is a nation of glory, civilization, history and authenticity. The nation proudly holds a remarkable record of great celebrated figures. These prominent figures serve as beacons who guide the future generations, who benefit from the celebrated lives and achievements of their ancestors and follow in their footsteps. It is something we have to pay attention to".
Al Awari continued saying: "eleven years ago, the Arab and Islamic nation, the UAE and the entire world have lost a great man, namely the wise founding father and leader, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan. He was a great scholar, a wise man, and a brilliant politician. Sheikh Zayed left behind a good remembrance and benevolent achievements, and we hope he is rewarded high by Allah for his good deeds."
He noted that Sheikh Zayed dedicated his life to a noble mission namely a message of compassion, love, friendship, security, safety and peace. He worked diligently to achieve world peace, and always spoke words of kindness, compassion and reconciliation.
"In any event, he called for the spread of peace and return of rights to their owners; he called for the elimination of grudges and aggression among peoples of the world," al Awari said, adding that during the ethnic cleansing war on Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sheikh Zayed courageously said, "This [war] is far from being human; shame on major countries turning a blind eye to the situation there."  
For his part, Mohammad Abdul Rahim Sultan al Olama, an Islamic Scholar in Dubai said that he could talk forever about the long record of achievements of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan. He stressed that Sheikh Zayed's memory will remain vivid in our minds and in the hearts of future generations. "One of his greatest achievements was founding this country (the UAE), which provides us with the security, comfort and welfare we need, and which makes us proud to belong to before the entire world," he highlighted.
Al Olama added that Sheikh Zayed was blessed with good deeds and distinguished traits, making him a brilliant leader who founded a contemporary and modern country, whose name resonates loudly and proudly among all four corners of the world. "The comprehensive developmental achievements made by the UAE would not have been possible without his farsighted vision and brilliant leadership. He was able to win the love of his people, the respect of his nation and the appreciation of the entire world," he said. 
Meanwhile, Dr Hossam Sultan al Olama said: "The late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan made an effort of funding a huge scientific project during the final days of his life. It took fifteen years to complete the preparations for this project, in cooperation with the International Islamic Fiqh Academy of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation. This project was named after him as a token of gratitude for his efforts in spreading knowledge and science. The project, specifically called, 'Zayed's Encyclopedia of Jurisprudence and Fundamental Rules' serves as a reliable resource for scholars and researchers."
"Recognizing the value of science and scholars, Zayed respected, honored and proudly presented them in his meetings. After all, scholars are the successors of prophets. He was keen on complying with the Islamic Sharia in all his words and actions, thus meeting and consulting with the scholars, listening to their opinions and following their guidance. He was also keen on meeting with senior scholars who visit the UAE and honored them in recognition of their valuable knowledge," he added.
"Sheikh Zayed wanted to make sure his people benefit from the knowledge of these scholars. Therefore, he would host senior and prominent scholars from all over the world on his own expense during the holy month of Ramadan every year, so that they can perform the duty of preaching and guidance in this country. He would make sure to meet with them too. Towards the end of his life, he hosted group of high-profile scholars to take part in the Prophetic Conference in Dawa and Guidance. He was always keen on correcting the image of Islamic, which was deliberately distorted, so that people might recognize that Islam is a religion of tolerance, mercy and humanity, unlike what enemies and ignorant claim that it is a religion of violence or extremism," Dr Hossam underlined.
 













