addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A scientific lecture, given at Abu Dhabi-based Tabah Foundation for Research and Counseling and talking about the methodology of al Azhar in rebuilding communities following sedition, has emphasized that extreme ideas are backed by the enemies of Islam, who have lured people with money and fame and argued young generations into daring to criticize the law of Allah and cast doubt on the nation's scholars, thereby turning culture upside down.
As such, quality is measured by the tendency to violate the state's goal, offenders are treated as brave and a brave scholar is he who can attack and not who is keen on applying the law of Allah, which is being abused nowadays.
The lecture, however, showed that al Azhar is capable of coping with those ideas but needs the support of scientific institutions in both the Muslim world and the Arab world, stressing that it was al Azhar alone which handled the confrontation and led the battle against extremists.
Dr. Naji Bin Hassan al Arabi, assistant professor at the University of Bahrain, has affirmed that the nation is undergoing critical stages, particularly with the existence of a team that is manipulating the religion in the name of religion, noting that hypocrites are those who have claimed consideration of reform in public.
Al Azhar as well as its scientific institutions and centres are the safety valve for the approach and mode of thinking based on the concept of moderation, he said, noting that the past 5 years saw al Azhar coming closer to ordinary people and being fully involved in the battle.
Al Azhar was in the heart of events, thwarting all the opponent's plans as per the instructions of the Grand Imam of al Azhar, who believed that this pushed al Azhar to the frontline against all the currents that clashed with the fundamentals of religion, he said, adding that this blessed step by al Azhar brought it ahead of other religious entities.
Al Arabi pointed out that al Azhar shouldered the responsibility alone while some schools did not play any role whatsoever. Al Azher looks at what is happening as sedition and believes it is its responsibility to put an end to such sedition, though Al Azhar was not enthusiastic about such matters before, he said.
He added: "Al Azhar has worked out a conception which underscores its role in making corrections for the current period after what is happening in the region has vanished, and robust and exciting scientific bases have been formulated for primary stages and the other academic ones."
As for Al Azhar's ability to cope with those ideas alone, al Arabi said al Azhar was able to do not only this but more than that as well. On how young men were lured, al Arabi noted that a robust building would need non-random systems and effort because a building that was built on a feeble base would collapse and here lies the difference between Al Azhar with its sciences and fundamentals on one hand and extreme ideas on the other.
Meanwhile, al Habib al Jifri, Chairman of Tabah Foundation for Research and Counseling, emphasized that confronting extremism has become a common goal for scholars and guardians in Arab and Islamic countries, adding that guardians are tasked with ensuring security and development in their countries, while scholars are tasked with protecting the religions of people, preparing them to build the Earth and be the slaves of Allah and understanding the meaning of caliphate, which is not limited to the reign of a caliph, i.e. bearing Al-Amanah (trust) in Earth.
 













