addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE is a prominent landmark of moderation and tolerance. Scenes of fasters from various sects and nations breaking their fast and other scenes where care is given to workers and all those who live in this Arab Muslim country, all set a live, civilized example of the prestigious and happy life that attracts people and calls on them to co-operate and coexist in peace and security, HH UAE President's guest scholars, said.
This came during a number of lectures on tolerance that were given by the guest scholars, who pointed out that Islam was a religion of mercy and peoples accepted it and embraced it one group after another. However, if a Muslim abandoned this approach and turned into a fanatic person, he would give a deformed image of Islam and his approach to life, they said. Similarly, when some groups, which were treated as Muslims, abandoned the Quranic approach, they distorted Islam and Islamic civilization and kept people away from the values ​​of this true religion, they added, noting that scenes of blood, body parts, beheadings, torture and burning people alive were individual scenes that by no means belonged to Islam nor to its concepts of mercy and tolerance.
"Islam is open to everybody and is aimed at making all people happy and guiding them through good treatment. Even dialogue is ordered by Allah Almighty to be gentle because Islamic discourse is that of mercy, good treatment and exchange of benefits and gains among nations and peoples. In contrast, violence and extremism do not serve this trend in people's lives and the culture of hatred and aggression will never build a human civilization. The Holy Quran contains an explicit call for coexistence and tolerance and recognizes cultural, ethnic and ideological differences. However, the common denominator is humanity which must be respected and preserved because all people are the servants of Allah and the major results derived from convergence and tolerance should be relied upon in both the religious and worldly affairs", they said.
"Muslims live in all countries of the world where they enjoy freedom, justice and equality. On the other hand, extremist groups seek to change Muslim countries into repulsive environments where values, humanity and civilization are destroyed. We are required to combine our efforts to correct the extremist discourse and straighten the path of Islam as embodied in the methodology of the UAE prudent leadership and the tolerance shown by the Arab Muslim people of the UAE, where hundreds of nationalities converge, co-operate and coexist peacefully and humanely in an ideal environment of tolerance," they added.
 
 













