addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, this morning performed Eid Al-Fitr prayer with a host of worshippers at Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi.
HH Sheikh Mohammed was joined by Their Highnesses Sheikh Saif bin Mohammed Al Nahyan; Sheikh Surour bin Mohammed Al Nahyan; Sheikh Hazza bin Zayed Al Nahyan, National Security Advisor and Deputy Chairman of Abu Dhabi Executive Council; Sheikh Nahyan bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation; Lt. General Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior; Sheikh Tahnoun bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy National Security Advisor; Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs; Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan Chief of Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court; Sheikh Dhiyab bin Zayed Al Nahyan; Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Foreign Minister; Sheikh Omar bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation; Sheikh Khalid bin Zayed Al Nahyan Chairman of the Board of Zayed Higher Organisation for Humanitarian Care and Special Needs (ZHO); and Dr. Sheikh Sultan bin Khalifa Al Nahyan, Advisor to the UAE President.
The congregation also included HE Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, Minister of Culture, Youth and Community Development; HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Saif Al Nahyan; Pilot Staff-Brigadier Sheikh Ahmed bin Tahnoun bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, Chairman of the National and Reserve Service Authority; and a number of sheikhs, senior civil and military officials, Arab and Islamic diplomats to the UAE as well as a host of citizens and residents.
Delivering the Eid sermon under the title "prevention of sedition", Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, thanked Allah for the blessing of Islam and the gift of faith. "Allah has conferred numerous favours on people, the most significant of which are the acts of worship, which are intended to increase people's good deeds and remove bad ones. Thanks to stability in the homeland, mankind can also increase their good deeds as they can peacefully perform their worships and cherish a safe life." Dr al Kaabi said.
Great Islamic values include love, tolerance, being good to parents and maintaining ties of kinship, Dr al Kaabi said, calling on worshippers to reinforce these values in the hearts of their children. "Our duty is to thank Allah for His blessings and favours and to pray to Him to protect us from evil and sedition, which Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) warned us against and ordered us to avoid."
Sedition affects both hearts and minds, leaving people in confusion and in controversy, he added, noting that so many people had been affected by sedition and misled by corrupt ideas and, thus, took the wrong path of evil deeds. 
"Islam guided us to the straight path and forbade us to seek sedition and head towards tribulations in order for Allah to save our religion and the world around us. Islam also taught us how to survive and become infallible," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi pointed out that a key method to prevent sedition is to contemplate the verses, wisdom and admonitions of the Holy Quran wherein guidance and deliverance are involved. "Another important means of prevention is obedience of our rulers and those in authority amongst us in line with Allah's orders," Dr al Kaabi added.
Once it erupts, sedition will be like flood that sweeps everything away, leaving nobody but those with firm faith, good manners and enlightened education, he said, noting that here lies the role of parents in keeping an open eye on their children and instilling patriotism in their hearts.
A Muslim must stick to the guidance of Allah by standing behind their ruler to ensure cohesion of the society and fortification of the homeland, Dr al Kaabi said, adding that this would prevent sedition, bring stability and comfort and help the nation move forward on the path of progress and prosperity.
Dr al Kaabi concluded his speech by praying to Allah to have mercy on Muslim men and women, remove their worries and forgive their sins. He also prayed to Allah to have mercy upon the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, keep the UAE and all Muslim countries safe, secure and away from sedition and grant success to President HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Vice President, Abu Dhabi Crown Prince and Rulers of the Emirates for the welfare of the UAE and well-being of the UAE people.
Following the Eid Al Fitr prayers, Sheikh Mohammed exchanged Eid greetings with the worshippers. Later, he and other sheikhs read Al-Fatiha for the soul of the late Sheikh Zayed, praying to Allah to rest his soul in paradise for the great works he did for serving the UAE and UAE people.
Subsequently, the team of the Support Command Unit of the armed forces shot 3 artillery shells marking the advent of Eid Al Fitr. The shots echoed through Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque.
 













