addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Guest scholars of HH the UAE President have called on Muslims to adhere to good manners and take advantage of the holy month of Ramadan, which cultivates souls, augments their devotion and keeps them away from sins.
In his class held at Fatima Bint Jamal Mosque, Dr. Redha Abdul Majeed al Mutawalli, Professor of Interpretation at Al Azhar University, emphasized that fasting the month of Ramadan cultivates souls, corrects behaviours and helps people be pious and avoid looting people's money, adding that the virtues of Ramadan include helping people abstain from taking bribes, looting orphans' money, forgery and fraud.
In the holy month of Ramadan people abstain from food, drink and sexual intercourse during the day, obeying Allah's commands although these are permitted at other times, he said. Muslims nevertheless endure but as soon as the holy month is over, they commit sins that anger Allah, al Mmutawalli added, underlining the great meanings the month of fasting is distinguished for.
Al Mutawalli pointed out that one of Ramadan's virtues is that it is the month when your supplications are accepted. According to the Hadith, three men whose supplications are never rejected, one of them is a fasting person until he breaks his fast. Ramadan is the month of piety, cleansing dirt and vices from souls and ensuring that bodies and body systems are comfortable as evidenced in Prophet Muhammad's pbuh Hadith: "fast and you will be healthy", he said, adding that Ramadan is also the month of charity and doubling of good deeds and that fasting helps man do good and give up evil.
The scholars held a class titled "Protect your wealth through Zakat", during which they talked about the rules of Zakat and Muslims' duty in this connection. Muslims should be committed to pay Zakat, this being a responsibility shouldered by the rich towards those who deserve it, they said.
Explaining the social and humanitarian benefits of Zakat, the scholars noted in their lectures that Zakat should be paid to the entities that would ensure that it is delivered to those who deserve it and that Zakat in Islam is an unparalleled symbiotic system in terms of putting an end to poverty on the part of some people, if it is properly applied. Failure to pay Zakat, however, would push some poor and needy people to develop negative habits and behaviours, they said.
The scholars stressed the need for the Zakat on cash money to be paid because it cleanses souls from stinginess and miserliness, augments and safeguards funds and serves the interests of all Muslims. Zakat on cash money meets the needs of the poor and needy people and contributes to healing the sick, disseminating knowledge and helping students.
 













