addthis_pub="newawqaf";















During their lectures, religious scholars hosted by the UAE President, discussed a number of valuable topics relevant to the rewards of the last ten days of the month of Ramadan. Dar Zayed for Family Care in Al Ain, and the Family Development Foundation hosted a number of female academic scholars as part of the guest scholars program to give lectures there. Some scholars also lectured at the Federal Correctional Foundation in Abu Dhabi, Mafraq Hospital, Zayed house for Islamic Culture, the National Petroleum Construction Company (NPCC), Capital Directorate, Sudanese Club, Indian Islamic Centre and a number of mosques after Asr and Isha prayers.
Professor al Fateh al Hibr Omar, former dean of the Faculty of Theology, Omdurman Islamic University, Sudan, gave a lecture on the ethics that a Muslim should have. He highlighted aspects of Prophet Muhammad's life, teachings and sayings, including the hadiths that said, "I was sent to perfect good character," and "A man who is known for his good character has the same degree as someone who stands at night in prayer". Aeisha said about the Prophet, "His character is the Quran".
He explained during the lecture that the life of the Prophet was compliant with the teachings of the Quran. "The Prophet kept his promises; he was forgiving when he could; he was merciful towards his people and nation; and he enjoyed the highest levels of ethics and manners. Islam has called for good character and morals, which we are in dire need for in our Muslim societies." Al Hibr Omar explained.
He said Islam has guided us to think good of Muslims, avoid backbiting and tracking the flaws of Muslims, and people in general. Islam has called for moderation and modesty, suppressing anger, forgiving people and called against making fun of people. Muslims should follow the teachings and sayings of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) as much as possible in order be true Muslims. Prof Omar also spoke about honesty at work, one of the traits that Muslims should maintain. He said all Muslims should apply this concept, as through their honesty at work, Muslims are obedient to and pleasing God and His Prophet.  
The scholars discussed topics relevant to the rewards of the last ten days of Ramadan, including that the Night of Decree is better than a thousand months. They spoke about the journey to Paradise, interpreting what Allah said, "but those who feared their Lord will be driven to Paradise in groups ..." (Az-Zumar: 73). This verse shows the divine honouring and great welcoming of the believers, while being admitted to the Gardens of Pleasure.
They described it as a journey to the eternal Paradise that the believers yield for, after the Day of Judgment. For their good deeds, they are rewarded with the Gardens of perpetual residence, wherein they abide eternally. They also spoke about the reward of Sadaqa (charity) in Ramadan, being the evidence of genuine belief, and that Ramadan is referred to as the month of kindness and good due to the many acts of social solidarity, helping the poor, needy, widows, and orphans, and visiting relatives, thus it is a month of blessings for those who spend and receive charity.
 













