addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Under the supervision of the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and in implementation of the programme prepared by Awqaf, the scholars-guest of HH the UAE President have participated in 6 seminars held for Quran tutors at the Holy Quran memorisation rings and centres across the UAE.
Lectures have been given by Dr. Naji al Arabi at Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Mosque in Abu Dhabi, Dr. Hamdi Subh Taha Dawood at Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Ajman, Dr. Redha Abdul Hamid Al Mutawalli at Al Ain Municipality Auditorium, Dr. Al Jilali al Muraini at Sheikh Zayed Mosque in Ras Al Khaimah, Dr. Ussama Ibrahim Mohammed at the Cultural Centre in Madinat Zayed in the Western Region and Dr. Yasser Ahmed Sutoohi at Abu Bakr al Siddiq Mosque in Fujairah.
The scholars praised the virtues of the departed leader Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul, including the launch of this great Quranic educational project as embodied in the Holy Quran Memorization Centres. HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah save him, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates, followed suit, making the UAE an example to follow and an outstanding leader in terms of moderation and consolidation of the Quranic culture of compassion, tolerance and moral values ​​in the minds of generations, the scholars said.
Experiences
The lecturers explained to the audience their personal experiences and those of their professors, institutes and schools in educating juniors about the culture of the Holy Quran.
Upgrade
Dr. Al Arabi asked two questions: How can a Quran tutor upgrade his performance? and How should he help students love the book of their Lord? He conducted an in-depth dialogue about these two questions and about very useful experiences and practices owned by Quran tutors.
"This reminded me of the style of al Hafiz al Sibki, may Allah have mercy upon him, as one of his morals was to listen for a long time to any of his students in order to encourage him and help him sense the value of himself and what he meant to his mentor and colleagues. The interest shown nowadays by our children in visiting the Holy Quran memorization centres is a great advantage", he said.













