addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah bless his soul, built immortal landmarks worldwide which showed the strong humanitarian presence of the UAE all over the world. Wherever we go, these landmarks are evidence of the genius of this unique leader and the humanity of the UAE people.
Eternal historical witnesses that are hard to be forgotten include his restoration of the Arabs' glory. People unanimously agree that the first civilization of Arabs came into existence around Ma'rib Dam. That civilization continued to be an exemplary record of humanity. Allah says: "indeed there was for Saba' (Sheba) a sign in their dwelling place, - two gardens on the right hand and on the left (and it was said to them) "Eat of the provision of your Lord, and be grateful to Him, a fair land and an Oft-Forgiving Lord." (Sabaa:15).
Arab tribes spread after Ma'rib Dam had collapsed. They dwelt in the Arabian Peninsula and the Levant but it came to the mind of no one except Sheikh Zayed to rebuild this dam and revive the memories of Arabs in their cradle. Sheikh Zayed was destined for this great work because he was aware of this Arab civilizational dimension and as a result, he spent hundreds of millions of dirhams to bring the dam back as it was. Sheikh Zayed said in this connection: "I believed it was my duty to support Yemen from which migrants made their way to all Arab regions, particularly to the eastern Gulf, thereby becoming a supporter of the Arab nation in the present and the future."
It was as if Sheikh Zayed was looking to the future of the entire Arab nation, searching for what could unify it as it was before and consequently he found Ma'rib Dam, the starting point of his Arab origin. So, he raised the UAE flag in Ma'rib in order for all people to know that the UAE tribes had descended from Ma'rib and that Ma'rib had a special resonance to every UAE national, because it was the origin of Arabs.
Sheikh Zayed revived the UAE modern glory and hence our prudent leadership affirmed what was earlier clarified by HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, that Ma'rib and Yemen would continue to receive the UAE support until security and stability are restored and Yemen's sovereignty and integrity are maintained.
Sheikh Mohammed affirmed that this is the UAE people's choice for which they have no substitute, adding that Ma'rib has become again in the heart of every UAE, Arab and GCC citizen and is treated as part of our country because it was watered with the blood of the UAE people so as to continue to be within the Arab region away from interventions and ambitions. Ma'rib's glory is revived and the UAE flag is fluttering on its land as contemplated by Sheikh Zayed some decades.
 













