addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan was a champion of tolerance, moderation and philanthropy, and was among the first to warn against extremism and radicalism. He was ahead of his time and ensured that his Emirati sons would follow moderation in their Islamic discourse. He viewed this approach as the key to building a modern nation.
These facts were reiterated by Islamic scholars attending the evening seminar organised at Zayed Grand Mosque under the title "Zayed: The Humanitarian Leader". The evening was sponsored by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, in collaboration with the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre in Abu Dhabi and Awqaf on the occasion of the Zayed Humanitarian Work Day marking the 11th anniversary of the passing of Sheikh Zayed, may his soul rest in peace.
The evening was attended by the scholar Shaikh Abdullah bin Bayyah, the President of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, guest scholars of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and a host of senior officers, executive directors and Awqaf's employees.
Dr al Kaabi extended sincerest greetings to the UAE's wise leadership led by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him. He thanked Allah the Almighty for blessing the UAE people with such prudent and loyal leaders who followed the steps of the founding fathers, as well as granting them a safe and prosperous homeland.
For his part, Bin Bayyah stressed that late Sheikh Zayed laid the foundations for a philanthropic nation that always gave without waiting for rewards. "On this valued occasion, we would like to remind the young generation of the legacy of their fathers whose values will live for generations to come," he added.
In the meantime, Shaikh Abdul Latif Derian, Lebanon's grand Mufti, stressed that Sheikh Zayed valued mankind and believed that civilizations were found on compassion and harmony, and that Islam is a tolerant religion. "Sheikh Zayed called for mercy in line with Islam's teachings and rejected extremist ideologies that never belonged to Islam," Derian added.
Statements came during a ceremony organized yesterday by Awqaf at Zayed Grand Mosque under the theme "Zayed the Benevolent".
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi reaffirmed that Zayed's humanitarian approach has represented, at an early stage, the wise vision of the Islamic discourse based on the principles of moderation and tolerance. "He warned against extremists because they distorted the tolerant teachings of Islam and the noble mission of the Prophet pbuh who came with a vision of mercy to the entire world. With such approach and insight, Sheikh Zayed protected the UAE and its people from the misleading groups, and, therefore, his legacy as a humanitarian leader will continue inspiring Emiratis for many generations to come." Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr Al Kaabi continued saying, "On this national and humanitarian occasion, we pray to Allah the Almighty to have mercy on him and pledge to remain loyal soldiers to our beloved country and faithful to our wise leaders. This evening, which commemorates the 11th anniversary of Sheikh Zayed's death, shows an appreciation to his achievements and a remembrance of his noble values and civilized accomplishments as well as his stature nationally, regionally and globally. It is also a renewal of the pledge of allegiance and loyalty to our wise leadership."
"The humanitarian leader, Sheikh Zayed, used to have a strong belief in Allah and the Prophet's pbuh Sunnah, something that has been touched by whoever listened to his speech. As such, he was one of the leaders who most thanked Allah for His bounties and reminded his people with the difficulties experienced by their ancestors throughout their development journey. His deeds and achievements reflected his gratitude to Allah. Thus, the welfare extended across the UAE and further to brother peoples around the world," Dr Al Kaabi underscored. 
Dr al Kaabi further noted that, with his kind heart, Sheikh Zayed used to ease people's pains and strive to meet their aspirations. He used to treat people from the father's perspective, hence was named 'Zayed the Father'. "Based on Zayed's humanitarian values our unique leaders were raised and developed such a close relationship with their people. Thanks to his vision, the UAE witnessed, and still witnessing, development in all arenas. With his contributions, the country is on its march towards progress, prosperity, security and stability and has become a model of tolerance, coexistence and good governance." Dr Al Kaabi noted.
Dr Al Kaabi explained that the UAE's authentic culture was the nurturing environment for Zayed the humanitarian leader who strived to establish the Union state to be a civilized country having Islam as its essence with its tolerance and compassion principles where women work side by side with men and enjoy respected status. "He wanted to present to the entire world a civilized model of Arabs and Muslims. Throughout his era, he had a positive contribution to every facet of life in the UAE where his achievements touched everyone living on its land," Dr al Kaabi stressed.   
"Zayed's everlasting stances form live lessons for the generations to come. His care extended to every living creature in the UAE's diverse wildlife and nature, including camels, horses, guzzles, birds, and trees," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi also talked about the humble nature of late Sheikh Zayed, noting he used to go on morning tours to check on the status of the country and the people, giving hand to a man taking care of a tree, or sharing food with workers on site. "These noble acts and humble nature promoted loyalty and consciousness and consolidated the values of compassion and Takaful among people. He sowed the seeds of humanitarian work and gave an example of close relationship between the leader and people.
Dr Al Kaabi concluded by saying, "Our beloved country reaped what Sheikh Zayed sowed and became the leading country in terms of humanitarian contributions. His values guided the UAE in its march of human development, hence a wealth of its resources were allocated for building schools, hospitals and infrastructure, to become one of the world's leading countries, ranking the first in terms of its people happiness."
 
 













