addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon 
All praise is due to Allah, the Most Generous, the Most Giving. He bestowed on us the favour of the union. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. Allah made him a cause for joining hearts together. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to obey Him, the Almighty, for He says, "O you who have believed, if you fear Allah, He will grant you a criterion and will remove from you your misdeeds and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty." (Al Anfal: 29).
Dear Muslims,
These days, we are commemorating the 44th UAE National Day and rejoicing such a historical achievement. Please know that unity is a religious obligation and a great living need. It is for wise purposes and great objectives that Islam urges us to unite, be in synergy and support one another, as in Allah's saying, "and hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided." (Al Imran: 103).
Our Prophet pbuh also stressed the need for unity as he said, "I will enjoin three things upon you: that you worship Allah and associate nothing with Him, that you hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided, and that you obey those that Allah put in authority over you." Indeed, unity and harmony are amongst the greatest bounties that Allah bestows upon His servants, because with them comes abundant welfare for the people and the country. The Exalted is He says, "and brought together their hearts. If you had spent all that is in the earth, you could not have brought their hearts together; but Allah brought them together. Indeed, He is Exalted in Might and Wise." (Al Anfal: 63).
Unity is a great blessing that returns with plenty of fruits. It is the foundation for happiness, progress and excellence. With unity, interests will be served, strength and safety achieved, homeland protected, lives safeguarded, honour maintained, great achievements attained and preserved. All of those assets will therefore be protected against any greedy or hurtful groups. This reminds us with a piece of poetry that says: "Had it not been for cooperation amongst people, no integrity would have existed nor would a country have prospered."
Amongst the greatest bounties of Allah, the Most Exalted and Gracious, is that He promised support and victory to those believers who are united. He also promised to guide them to the righteous path and protect them. The Prophet pbuh said, "Allah's hand is with the Jamaah (the community)." Thus, whoever adheres to the community and supports their leaders and society, Allah the Almighty will grant them victory over their enemies and arrange for them the provisions of welfare and prosperity. Indeed, Allah gathered Muslims upon one doctrine and ordered them to be united. Therefore, whoever splits away from the community would have disobeyed His orders, followed Satan, lost his faith and gone astray.
The Almighty has warned us against division and conflict, for He says, "and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage and [then] your strength would depart." (Al Anfal: 46). This means, your strength will be wasted and your country will perish. In fact, the history is full of examples of strong countries that used to enjoy safety and were intact until dispute prevailed amongst their people transforming their safety into terror, their strength into weakness and welfare into poverty. This sheds light on the fact that division among the community leads to all types of hardship and sufferings. For this reason, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "unity is mercy, and division is torment."
O Servants of Allah,
Allah has blessed us in the UAE with wise founding leaders who devoted themselves to build the union and strived to surmount obstacles, unite hearts and bring hands together. All their efforts aimed to implement Allah's orders: "indeed this, your religion, is one religion, and I am your Lord, so worship Me." (Al Anbyaa: 92). Their efforts were blessed with a stunning success bringing the union of the Emirates into light. Thereafter, they continued the development march with unwavering will for giving, and year on year they made the union stronger and loaded with abundant fruits.
It is, therefore, our duty to show gratitude to our founding fathers by remembering their sacrifices that led to our glory, rendering the UAE an example to emulate. We can do that by praying for them, following the Prophet's pbuh guidance as he said: "Recompense him who does a favour to you; but if you have not the means to do so, pray for him until you feel that you have compensated him." So, let us pray to Allah to bestow them the best rewards. 
O Worshipers,
Late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah have mercy on him, had once said, "the previous years were a testimony of the importance of the UAE Union as a gateway towards a better life for our citizens and a means of realizing the aspirations of our people in stability, advancement and prosperity." Thanks to Allah, under the umbrella of the Union, the UAE did achieve the Emirati people's aspirations embodied in progress in all fields and achievement of the highest levels in areas of health, education, technology, agriculture, commerce, economy and urbanisation. In view of that, the country has attained the highest ranks in competitiveness and in meeting the international standards. Such gains proved the success of the union, wisdom of the leaders, determination and cohesion of the people. Therefore, let us thank Allah for the blessing of the Union.
By looking around us will make us recognise the merits of our union further; thus, we hold firm to it and sacrifice our lives in the way of preserving it. Also, we increasingly believe in the need to keep our union stronger, more blossoming and safer and for that we rally around our wise leaders. By so doing, we will spread love and harmony within the community and fortify it against conflict and discord, in line with the All-Glory's orders: "He has ordained for you of religion what He enjoined upon Noah and that which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], and what We enjoined upon Abraham and Moses and Jesus - to establish the religion and not be divided therein." (Ash-Shura: 13).
Bearing this in mind, we implore Allah to guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He has commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
 
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that we are enjoined to advise each other to fear Allah, the Glorious, and sacrifice all that is precious in order to preserve stability of our homeland, even if it costs us our lives. Allah, the Most Sublime, has promised the martyrs who give their lives for the sake of their homeland great rewards, His Paradise and acceptance of their intercession for their families and relatives. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "the intercession of a martyr will be accepted for seventy members of his family." So, blessed are the martyrs with such a noble status and a glorious favour.
In recognition of such status, the UAE's prudent leadership has decreed that Martyrs' Day will be observed on November 30 every year to recognise the sacrifices of Emiratis who lost their lives defending the sovereignty of the UAE and the Arab nation. Additionally, out of care about the families of the martyrs, the UAE government has set up the "Martyrs' Families' Affairs Office" at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court. The office is tasked with providing the martyrs' families with care, meeting their needs and doing whatever it takes to serve them and bring happiness to them.
So, let us pray to Allah to have mercy on the martyrs and protect our loyal soldiers.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Lord, please continue blessing our country with unity and compassion and grant us success. O Allah let us also avoid division and dispute and place us under Your protection and care, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled, O Lord of the Worlds.
 
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with all words and deeds that get us closer to Paradise and seek Your refuge from all that gets closer to Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us. O Allah, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow. 
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













