addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He is the Originator of the heavens and the earth, and He is the Almighty, the All-Wise. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He encouraged creativity and innovation and urged for advancement and prosperity. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, in line with His orders: "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (An-Nahl: 128). He also says, "so give good tidings to My servants who listen to speech and follow the best of it." (Az-Zumar: 17-18).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that a nation's creative talents and young innovators are the foundation of its development and prosperity. Talent is amongst the blessings Allah bestowed on mankind in order to test his deeds. The Almighty says, "[He] who created death and life to test you [as to] which of you is best in deed." (Al Mulk: 2). As such, the good use of such talents is a religious obligation and a prophetic approach, for the Prophet pbuh said, "and seek help from Allah and do not give up." This Hadith is an invitation to strengthen people's hope, elevate their powers and motivate their innovation.
Indeed, Islam wants us to overcome our inability by creating innovative methods to solve our problems, surmount obstacles and lay the foundation for advancement and development. It gives high standing for work, production and innovation as these are the means for achieving growth and prosperity. In this regard, Allah the Most Sublime praised innovation and granted it a gracious rank by making it amongst His best names and higher qualities. The Exalted He is says, "Originator of the heavens and the earth." (Al Baqara: 117). This means that He created the heavens and the earth in a unique manner.
O Servants of Allah,
Creativity and innovation are either the fruits of new positive ideas or a development of existing ones in order to bring out new and useful ideas. In more than 130 places, Quran calls us to observe our surroundings, research and use our reason. Some of such calls came in the form of orders, like in Allah's saying, "say: Observe what is in the heavens and on earth." (Yunus: 101). In this Aya, there is a reference to astronomy and other worldly sciences. In other instances, the holy Quran commands us to think about our creation, as in this Aya in which the Most Sublime says, "so let man observe from what he was created." (At-Tariq: 5).
As such, observing our world and using our reason is a worship for which we will be rewarded because it strengthens our faith and leads us to achieve important discoveries and innovations. For this reason, the Almighty ordained us to contemplate His glorious revelations and abundant bounties, for He says, "and He has subjected for you the night and day and the sun and moon, and the stars are subjected by His command. Indeed in that are signs for a people who reason." (An-Nahl: 12).
Knowledge and reason are, therefore, the essence of innovation and the pillars of development. In the following Aya, Allah, the Most Gracious, links between knowledge and using reason. He says, "say, "are those who know equal to those who do not know?" Only they will remember [who are] people of understanding." (Az-Zumar: 9). That is: those who possess open mind and enlightened thinking will understand the facts about their universe.
In this sense, preservation of minds has been one of the top objectives of religion. To achieve this goal, our religion prohibits all that hinders mankind from innovating, developing their living, building civilisations and bringing prosperity to their homeland. The Most Exalted, says, "He has produced you from the earth and settled you in it." (Hud: 61). Certainly, the existence of educated people who make use of their reason, lay down outstanding plans, innovate in their work and strive to develop their society is a prerequisite to bringing prosperity and advancement to the world.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that the Prophet pbuh used to consult his companions and discuss all matters with them in order to motivate their positive thinking with the aim of encouraging them to be innovative. Invoking the biography of the Prophet pbuh leads us to recognise that his companions, may Allah be pleased with them, have marked their time by noticeable contributions that transformed their community. Indeed, it is evidenced throughout history that a nation's renaissance and glory can only be made possible with their people's innovation. Therefore, all that we see today in terms of advanced capabilities that facilitate our lives are in fact the fruits of innovative work carried out by creative individuals for the good of the humanity.
Jaber bin Hayan, for example, developed the 'Theory of the Equivalent Weights', while Ibn al-Haitham laid down the basics for optical sciences. Contributions were also made by Ibn al Nafees who put the earliest description of pulmonary circulation, al-Khawarizmi who separated algebra and arithmetic as well as al-Idrisi who drew the first world map. Islamic civilisation brought many other Muslim scientists and inventors whose contributions to human civilisation are still observable to date. In seeking knowledge, those eminent contributors were motivated by faith. That is why Allah the Most Exalted raised their status and granted them success and high ranks. He says, "Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees." (Al Mujadila: 9) This Aya combines between knowledge and belief in Allah.
O Worshipers,
People of successful ideas and creative mind are always mindful of the projects that they implement and continually assess the performance of their businesses. As a result, they pursue improvement of their performance and, hence, elevate the level of their effectiveness and capability. They also encourage their cadres to innovate and appreciate their efforts and creativity.
It is good to know that family has a key role in nurturing children's creativity and guiding their intellectual interests in order to help them climb the ladder of excellence. A good example on this matter is that of Imam Malik bin Anas' mother. Observing his brilliant capacities, she sent him to the Majlis of Rabeea to seek knowledge. Thereafter, Imam Malik excelled and became the Imam of Dar Al Hijra. So, there is nothing more beautiful than encouraging our children and developing their talents in order to help them benefit and raise the position of their homeland and Arab nation. Allah the Almighty urges us to make use of His blessings as He says, "then We made you successors in the land after them so that We may observe how you will do." (Yunus: 14).
 
With this in mind, we beseech Allah to grant us beneficial knowledge and guide us to do righteous deeds. May Allah enlighten our mind and guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Lords. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is Allah's servant and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Worshipers,
Please know that we are enjoined to advise each other to fear Allah, the Glorious, adhere to the teachings of His glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger. It is also our duty to use our mind in order to innovate. This is because innovation brings great benefits to the individual and the society as a whole. Each field of innovation carries a certain value. One field, for instance, can represent a wealth of benefits for the homeland and another's advantages can be credited for strengthening economy. There are other innovations, as well, that contribute to boosting the country's status, building a prosperous future for the generations to come, preserving the nation's gains and developing the services it offers.
Brought up within environment that is conducive to creativity and innovation, many individuals will certainly come up with great discoveries and creations. To this effect, Allah the Almighty has blessed us in the UAE with a wise leadership that embraces talents, attracts intellects and expertise, encourage excellence and support innovation. In view of that, our leaders motivate the country's sons and daughters to innovate and win leading ranks in the race for advancement and uniqueness. In so doing, they are guided by the Prophet pbuh as he said, "A strong believer is better and is more lovable to Allah than a weak believer."
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
 
O Allah, we implore You at this instant not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, a debt unsettled, an illness unhealed, or a dead without mercy, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow. 
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













