addthis_pub="newawqaf";















First Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd"  (Allah is the Greatest eight successive times and Allah is the Greatest, to Allah all praise is due).
Allah Akbar as many times as an Eid day started and ended, a fasting person rejoiced breaking their fasting, people voluntarily prayed and repeated Takbir. Allah is the Greatest, Allahu Akbar Kabira wa al Hamdu Lillahi Kathira, wa Subhana Allahi Bukratan wa Asila (and to Allah goes all praise. And Glory to Allah, eventide and in the morning). I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger. He is Allah's chosen and preferred amongst His Creation; with him He perfected religion and he was the last of the apostles. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon our Guide Muhammad, his family, his companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to fear Allah and obey Him, as He says, "but those who feared their Lord will have gardens beneath which rivers flow, abiding eternally therein, as accommodation from Allah. And that which is with Allah is best for the righteous." (Al Imran: 189).
Dear Muslims,
The holy month of Ramadan has gone past, for which we need to give thanks to Allah, The Most Generous, on the great favours He has endowed upon us, including the completion of fasting and standing up for prayer at night. Indeed, one can show gratitude by performing good deeds. O blessed those who succeeded to do plenty of good deeds, for Allah the Almighty says, "and those who are guided - He increases them in guidance and gives them their righteousness." (Mohammad: 17). O blessed those who unrelentingly performed their acts of worship, gave for charity, observed their prayers and performed plenty of Nawafil (supererogatory rak'ahs). The Exalted He is praises amongst His servants those who were persistent on doing the righteousness, for He says, "indeed, they used to hasten to good deeds and supplicate Us in hope and fear, and they were to Us humbly submissive." (Al Anbya': 90).
Therefore, those who observed their prayers, were particular on attending the Friday prayer in congregation, gave much for charity and attended sermons should hold fast such good deeds that they might win the highest ranks in Paradise. The Almighty says, "indeed, those who have said, 'Our Lord is Allah,' and then remained on a right course - there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve. Those are the companions of Paradise, abiding eternally therein as reward for what they used to do." (Al Ahqaf: 13-14).
With this in mind, let us make Ramadan a turning point in our lives by obeying Allah in day and night so that we might win His Paradise. Let us keep our good hearts and intentions following what the Prophet pbuh said, "Verily, Allah does not look at your faces or your wealth, rather He looks at your hearts and your deeds."
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
O Servants of Allah,
Please remember that Eid days are moments for joy and celebration but also for Dhikr, Takbir and Hamd. The Messenger of Allah said, "every people have a festival and on this day is our festival." On Eid days, people become compassionate with each other, forgive one another's mistakes, give for charity and shake hands with other people. By doing this, Allah would be pleased with them and grant them mercy and forgiveness, as the Prophet pbuh said, "Two Muslims will not meet and shake hands having their sins forgiven them before they separate." Let us, therefore, abandon hatred, envy and disputes, for our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said, "do not hate one another, nor be jealous of one another; and do not desert one another, but O Allah's servants, be Brothers! And it is unlawful for a Muslim to desert his brother Muslim (and not to talk to him) for more than three nights."
On this occasion, Muslims are highly recommended to honour their parents in recognition of their favours and pray for them to blessed with Allah's mercy, following the Almighty's saying, "My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small." (Al Israa: 24). Muslims are also recommended to keep bonds of kinship so that Allah might be satisfied with them. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "The tie of kinship is suspended to the Throne and says: He who keeps good relations with me Allah would keep good connection with him, and he who severed me Allah would sever him."
On these days, it is also good to visit neighbours and friends, thus promote compassion, joint work, peace and harmony in the community and, consequently, rejoice faith. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "three qualities whoever possesses them will taste the sweetness of faith." And of them he mentioned, "Who loves a person and he loves him only for Allah's sake."
Indeed, Eid Al Fitr is a precious opportunity for Muslims to consolidate the relations amongst the members of the community and bring assistance to widows and orphans as well as spend for charity. The Exalted He is says, "they ask you, [O Muhammad], what they should spend. Say: whatever you spend of good is [to be] for parents and relatives and orphans and the needy and the traveler. And whatever you do of good - indeed, Allah is Knowing of it." (Al Baqara: 215).
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that family is the backbone of a society and the basis for its progress and cultural development. As long as a family is stable, the community would flourish and be stable as well. A happy family is built on love and compassion as well as wisdom in facing challenges, cooperation and coordination. Allah the Almighty says, "and of His signs is that He created for you from yourselves mates that you may find tranquillity in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought." (Ar-Rum: 21).
During Eid, one relishes a sense of intimacy, bonding and compassion amongst their family members. Indeed, a family with strong ties would definitely bring up good generations and real men. By nurturing children and raising them up on decent manners and righteous values, they would be beneficial for their own families, community and homeland.
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar wa Lillahi Al Hamd.
O Servants of Allah, please also know that on Eids, people are recommended to extend greetings to their wise leaders and renew their pledge of loyalty to them in a brotherly atmosphere and a unique strong unity that reflects the noble customs of the UAE people and their close relations with their leadership. Indeed, the UAE society is characterised by tolerance, stability and prosperity. The UAE people show their gratitude to Allah, because when you thank the Almighty for His abundant bounties, He would increase His rewards and favours to you. The Exalted He is says, "and [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, 'If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor]." (Ibrahim: 7). Therefore, there is nothing better than striving to consolidate our unity and harmony, preserve our achievements, develop our country in all domains and perform our duty to the best level possible. Indeed, by doing this, we would have the chance to reap the grand fruits of our work, as translated in honesty, noble ethics and good conduct. Our Master Muhammad said, "the best amongst you are those who have the best manners and character."
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to accept our good deeds, perpetuate happiness amongst us and grant us success to obey Him and those He has ordained upon us to obey, in compliance with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (Annisaa: 59).   
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
 Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar, Allah Akbar Wa Lillahi Al Hamd
 All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 As to what follows, please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in private and in public, and know that the Messenger of Allah pbuh came with a mission to spread mercy in the world. As such, the Prophet pbuh called for good conduct and righteous deeds and emphasised safeguarding people's rights, since Islam's mission is to promote the values of mercy, moderation and tolerance. Indeed, the most unlawful act according to Islam is killing people as this is one of the biggest forbidden acts and one of the greatest sins that incur Allah's wrath and severe punishment. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "A faithful believer remains at liberty regarding his religion unless he kills somebody unlawfully." Killing people unlawfully would bring remorse, misery and grand loss to the killers, for Allah the Almighty says in the story of Adam's two sons, "and his soul permitted to him the murder of his brother, so he killed him and became among the losers." (Al Ma'ida: 30).
Let us, therefore, be alert against any extraneous and suspicious thoughts that might distort the wonderful image of our religion and misrepresent its noble values, for the Almighty says, "and do not follow the way of the corrupters." (Al A'raf: 142). Let us also preserve the culture of tolerance that our Islam consolidates and uphold its pious principles and bright moderation, for our Lord says, "and, [moreover], this is My path, which is straight, so follow it; and do not follow [other] ways, for you will be separated from His way. This has He instructed you that you may become righteous." (Al Anaam: 153).  
With this in mind, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Lord, please bless us with many returns of this Eid and make it a witness for our righteousness and do not let it witness against us. O Allah, may we ask You to accept our work and grant us success to win Your Paradise. O Lord of the Worlds.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to beautify us with the adornment of faith and make us among those who guide and are rightly guided. O Lord, please guide us to the right path and grant us success to guide others to the righteousness.
O You who changes hearts, make our hearts steadfast in adhering to Your religion. O Allah, may we ask You for everlasting delight and joy that will never cease. And may You bless us with the sweetness of looking upon Your face. O Lord of the Worlds, we beseech You to make us pleased with that which You have decreed.
Our Allah, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Please stand up for Salat and may Allah the Almighty forgive your misdeeds and purify you.
 
 
 













