addthis_pub="newawqaf";















First Sermon
 All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He rendered reason as one of the religion's goals and guided us to the righteous thinking. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that our Master Mohammed is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the Imam of the believers and the last of the Prophets. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you and myself to fear Allah and obey Him, as He says, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al Ahzab: 70-71).
Dear Muslims,
In Ramadan people's hearts get clearer and they increase performing acts of worship of Allah, the Knowing of the unseen. They strive in obeying Allah and pursue His pleasure, and hence, they tend to attend lessons at mosques to better their understanding of their religion. Please know that Allah the Almighty has laid down the religion and ordained the religious duties in order to enlighten people's minds and help them use their reason. Indeed, reason is one of the greatest blessings that Allah bestowed upon mankind. By resorting to reason, one can obtain beneficial knowledge, establish a good life and accomplish great achievements. It is in reason, therefore, where a nation's wealth lies and a homeland's provisions exist because it is a means to understand the teachings of the true Islam. Allah the Almighty says, "indeed, We have sent it down as an Arabic Qur'an that you might understand." (Yusuf: 2). This means that Quran was sent in Arabic for us to understand its meanings, contemplate its verses and draw out their scientific concepts. These things can only be done through a preponderant mind that leads us to a healthy thinking.
O Servants of Allah,
Please know that there are several characteristics of a healthy way of thinking, which include being moderate, just, balanced and reasonable as well as avoiding extremism, for the Exalted is He says, "and thus we have made you a just community." (Al Baqara: 143). A just community is that whose members possess open minds and a civilized way of thinking. In their pursuit of the public interests, they maintain righteousness and moderation, for Allah, the Glorious, says, "so remain on a right course as you have been commanded." (Hud: 112). This means we should implement Allah's laws as He commanded with no immoderation or negligence. On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh warned against all types of immoderation and encouraged us to facilitate things rather than complicating them, as he said, "facilitate things to people (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them and give them good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam)."
Moderate thinking has numerous positive impacts on societies where it leads to stability, protects the nation against wrongdoings and risks, sustains unity and coherence, promotes tolerance and compassion, helps achievement of peaceful coexistence and protection of lives, honour and wealth. Indeed, Allah ordered us to thank Him for the grant of stability, for He says, "let them worship the Lord of this House, Who has fed them, [saving them] from hunger and made them safe, [saving them] from fear." (Qureish: 3-4).
O Worshipers,
 Please be aware that the means of promoting moderate thinking in the community are abundant. The most important of such means is adhering to the principle of tolerance advocated by Islam as well as to its noble values and authentic civilization. Another important means is to show pride of Islam's gracious principles and follow its moderate culture which is based on the Book of Allah and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh. Our Lord says, "so adhere to that which is revealed to you. Indeed, you are on a straight path." (Al Zukhruf: 43). In this context, those who seek to be close to Islam and adhere to its teachings, should be honest to Allah and pursue His pleasure through establishing justice and following the righteous path. By so doing, they would enhance their righteous and moderate thinking, for Allah the Almighty says, "who listen to speech and follow the best of it. Those are the ones Allah has guided, and those are people of understanding." (Al Zumar: 18).
The people of understanding are those who possess open minds, balanced thinking and humble nature. They avoid deception and vanity as well as arrogance, which is one of the greatest blights that lead to denial of the truth and disrespect of Allah's Creation out of haughtiness and tyranny. In this regard, it is narrated that Omar bin Al Khattab wrote a message to Abu Mousa Al Asha'ari, may Allah be pleased with them, that read, "returning to the right path is better than continuing in the falsehood." Indeed, the truth is more worthy to be followed; hence Muslims should follow it and exalt the rulings of Allah so that they don't get involved in what they don't have knowledge about. The Almighty says, "and do not pursue that of which you have no knowledge. Indeed, the hearing, the sight and the heart - about all those [one] will be questioned." (Al Israa: 36).    
Dear Fasting people,
Please know that Allah commanded us to validate any information and spread not rumours, for He says, "O you who have believed, if there comes to you a disobedient one with information, investigate, lest you harm a people out of ignorance and become, over what you have done, regretful." (Al Hujurat: 6). He also says, "and when there comes to them information about [public] security or fear, they spread it around. But if they had referred it back to the Messenger or to those of authority among them, then the ones who [can] draw correct conclusions from it would have known about it." (Al Nisaa: 83). This is a criticism of those who believe any information and spread it without validating its truth, failing to remember that it can be untrue.
Thus, discouraging rumours boosts moderate thinking, which is a responsibility to be shared amongst all members of the community. Hence, family is responsible for raising children in a healthy environment, develop their awareness and knowledge, rationalise their emotions, guide them to the safe way of using modern technologies and protect them from bad ideologies. Teachers are also responsible to provide their students with good education, teach them good conducts and guide them towards the right and balanced way of thinking. High educated people and mass media representatives also bear the responsibility of raising people's awareness of misleading ideologies that form a real risk to the mentality and stability of the community. By so doing, all these social groups would be collaborating in righteousness and piety, following the Almighty's order: "and cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al Maeda: 2).
Indeed, such cooperation will certainly immune the community against sorcery, superstitious ideas and corrupt cultures as these are harmful for the individuals and the society. They demolish stability and peace as well as spread evil acts and temptation to wrongdoings.
We, therefore, pray to Allah to fill our hearts with piety, bless us with understanding and guide us to the righteous path. O Lord, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh, and obey whoever You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity to be worshiped but Allah, having no partners. I also bear witness that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. O Allah, peace and blessings be upon our Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, as it ought to be by observing Him in secret and in the open and know that the UAE has gone far in the way of sustaining moderate thinking. To this effect, it controlled the religious discourse, promoted the values of moderation, justice and tolerance, and consolidated the principles of peaceful coexistence and righteous science. It also encouraged the development of education and established a unified religious reference in the country in line with Allah's revelation, "so ask the people of the message if you do not know." (Annahl: 43). Muslims, therefore, should make use of such an enlightened reference.
That is said, please be aware that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah." He also said, "nothing turns back the Decree except supplication."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions. O Allah please also be pleased with the Prophet's pbuh wives, the mothers of the believers, and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, please bless us with reason, guide us to the righteous path, grant us health of minds and bodies and be pleased with us, O Possessor of Glory and Honour.
O Allah, we implore You at this instance not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, a debt unpaid, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a need unsatisfied, O Lord of the Worlds.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (Annahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













