addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the UAE's 44th National Day, Awqaf held a big celebration, which was concluded with a massive march led by Awqaf's chairman and senior officials. All Awqaf employees, Imams and Khateebs as well as the students of Abu Dhabi-based Holy Quran memorisation centres and host of of citizens and residents joined the march.
The march roamed the streets surrounding Awqaf's headoffice in the capital Abu Dhabi and the participants were carrying flags. On the front there were scenes of the UAE beautiful heritage, namely including horses, camels and Ayala dance troupe singing spirited national chants.
The activity began with the national anthem and verses from the Holy Quran, followed by a speech by the Awqaf's chairman, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, in which he expressed his heartfelt allegiance and loyalty to HH the UAE President, the UAE Vice President, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, the Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates and the UAE loyal nationals and residents.
Dr al Kaabi said, "we are celebrating this occasion to express our love and loyalty, praying to Allah the Almighty to have mercy on the founder of our state and builder of our civilisation late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan and the other founders, who represented the spirit of the Union as well as its generosity and sacrifices, and to add what they did to the balance of their good deeds. Marking the UAE Martyr's Day, we wish to pay tribute to our martyrs, who fell down while defending their homelands, supporting their oppressed brothers, fighting aggressors and vandals and restoring hope to their fellow Yemenis. They are our stronghold and impenetrable shield, their names are a source of pride to us and the glory of our homeland lies in honouring them. They answered their country's call for duty and sacrificed themselves in the way of Allah, giving their country a new spirit by their sacrifices. We pray to Allah to have mercy on our martyrs and grant them the higher rank in Paradise with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth.
"Dear fellow citizens, we are nowadays experiencing the highest feelings of pride by belonging to our dear UAE, loving it devotedly, sacrificing ourselves for it, positively participating in building it, maintaining its identity and adhering to its authentic heritage and noble values. For this reason, we should instill love and a sense of cohesion, communication and compassion in our children, maintain the achievements and preserve the gains of this country and stand as a fortress in the face of those who seek to harm our homeland or break our cohesion and union.
"On this national occasion we express our allegiance to our wise leadership by showing sincere love to them, acknowledging their grace and efforts, citing their good deeds, glorifying and respecting them, praying to Allah the Almighty to protect them, as well as by supporting them. They are described in what our Prophet Muhammad pbuh said: "the best of your rulers are those who you love and who love you, who invoke Allah's blessings upon you and you invoke His blessings upon them." Our relationship with our leaders is a parental one overflowing with love, compassion and harmony. They have made us a strong state with lofty buildings and provided us with all means of decent living and well-being. They have also built schools, universities, health centres, hospitals, cities and rural areas, to which the best services have been provided. Moreover, they have made the UAE on par with the world's most advanced countries and ensured that the UAE people are respected wherever they go. That is why they have all our love, loyalty and obedience and we always pray to Allah the Almighty to protect and support them," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













