addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has organised an activity marking the Martyr's Day in all its branches across the UAE. The activity was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, Awqaf's executive directors, branch directors and employees.
During the event, Awqaf extended its heartfelt expressions of pride to the UAE wise leadership, brave armed forces, the families of the righteous martyrs, the UAE people in particular and the Arab people in general marking the martyrdom of a group of the UAE's honourable soldiers.
"On this glorious day of every year, we will take a pause with sacrifice in the way of Allah, loyalty to our leadership and allegiance to our homeland. We will look into the record of heroic sacrifices made by the loyal men who have given up their lives to defend their sanctities, leadership and homeland," Dr al Kaabi said.
"One's homeland is a sacred place and deserves to be defended by all means available to us even if this would cost us our lives or the lives of our young sons. This was what the brave heroes of the UAE Armed Forces did in many places inside and outside the UAE for fulfilling the orders of Allah and His Messenger pbuh as well as obeying their commanders with respect to defending their homeland," Dr al Kaabi added.
"Those who said Allah is our Lord and then responded without hesitation or reluctance to the call of duty launched by the ruling commander of our armed forces knew very well that martyrdom is a source of honour, a sacred duty and Jihad for the sake of Allah. Allah, the Almighty, has laid great responsibilities on the ruler and his prudent leadership including safeguarding the religion, protecting rights, putting an end to injustice, defending the homeland and its borders against enemies, maintaining the security of the society and the gains of the nation, and carrying out any other tasks as deemed necessary.
All this is incorporated in the strategy of the ruler, who is responsible before Allah, his homeland and his people for building a deterrent modern integrated military force. The Almighty says: "and prepare against them whatever you are able of power." We, on the other hand, are enjoined to listen to and obey the ruler and respond to his directives so as to deter aggression and stop all conspirators, vandals or those who tend to tamper with the destiny of the state and the society.
"It is martyrdom in the course of achieving those goals that protect homelands and cause them to occupy a better position among nations. According to the Islamic thought, martyrdom embodies all the meanings of heroism, sacrifice and patriotism as evidenced in the spectacular statement of the founding leader Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul, when he said, 'the UAE does not want its citizens to launch aggressions on any country, but trains and arms them to defend its land and preserve the good things that Allah blessed it with'.
"This statement bears the most important goals that we always look forward to maintaining and HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, added to it such goals as serving justice and defending the oppressed people when he said, 'Our brave soldiers fell in defence of truth, justice and the rights of the oppressed people while performing their sacred duty'.
"No one on earth denies the importance of such goals in building international peace and stability and HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, has translated them into the embodiment of heroism in the UAE armed forces."
Dr al Kaabi concluded his speech by a verse from the Holy Quran: "and never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision." Thus, sacrificing oneself is the highest rank of generosity. The UAE martyrs did so in response to the call of duty, brotherhood and legitimate rights of the brotherly Yemen. So, before and after the Storm of Resolve, Jihad will continue till the Day of Judgment and whenever it is necessary for the sake of Allah, Dr al Kaabi said.
 













