addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In response to the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, to make 2016 a year of reading, Awqaf has well received and paid utmost attention to this national strategy of knowledge making.
This is because the UAE is a nation that has known and realised that the origin of any civilised development comes not only through reading but also through recitation. Thus, [the Arab and Muslim nation] produced to the world thousands of books, encyclopedias and specialised and comprehensive libraries.
But how can generations get grasp of these books and references and reproduce them to the world with up-to-date additions that will contribute cultural sharing and disseminating the human values ​​of tolerance, peaceful coexistence and harmony?
The answer lies in reading and the production of renewable thinking that keeps pace with the progress of life.
It was the UAE wise leadership that provided schools, institutes, universities and Holy Quran memorisation centres for the generations across the UAE. These centres are currently being attended by about 37,000 boys and girls for reading the Holy Quran, pondering its verses and adhering to its values.
Reading in the age of smart technologies, either through tablets, books or other mediums, has helped the research, studies and Fatwas issued by Awqaf to be accessible to larger audience inside and outside the UAE. They have become popular worldwide because they adopt moderate approach. This is a well-known Emirati methodology, which is immune from extremism or intellectual deviations plus it is acceptable to all. Allah the Almighty says, "the Most Merciful taught the Quran." And He also says, "and recite, [O Muhammad], what has been revealed to you of the Book of your Lord. There is no changer of His words." and "Recite in the name of your Lord who created."
The word 'reading' and its derivatives are mentioned over 70 times in the Holy Quran. Ever since, the Holy Quran was revealed in Arabic, the Arabic language has won a new term of special connotation - recitation, in which we can taste the smooth intonation, sequence and agile tongue moving through letters, words and verses, because Allah, the Almighty says: "and We have certainly made the Quran easy for remembrance, so is there any who will remember?" Thus, our generations will continue to experience the beauty of our Arabic language and our cultural heritage.
Reading helps us also to get familiar with the contemporary cultural and knowledge-related achievements of other nations and peoples. This is in order to delve deeper into the innovation standards and the various sciences and industries, including the universal character of good values ​​to ensure the safest and most stable and prosperous life for human beings.
As such, Awqaf personnel including scholars, preachers, researchers, Imams, Khateebs, Muezzins and administrative staff have been motivated by the initiative of  HH the UAE President and his wise leadership. They praised his directives as well as that of the Arab Reading Challenge initiative of HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, for printing 50 million books in Arabic. HH Sheikh Bin Rashid had promised more initiatives would be launched in future, the most prominent of which was this initiative launched by HH the UAE President.
Therefore, Awqaf's mission lies in reading, energising the memory and getting familiar with the updates of sciences and cultures in order for its personnel to reflect all of this in mosque messages and develop the culture of the society. The aim is to render the UAE the ideal environment for a reading-based knowledge making. Awqaf will soon announce initiatives in implementation of these directives.
 













