addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, has unveiled the details of opening a branch for Al Azhar University in the UAE, the world's first branch of the university outside Egypt.
Dr al Kaabi explained that study at the university would commence in Al Ain City next academic year in three disciplines: Daawa and Information, Islamic Education and Islamic Studies in foreign languages. "Yet, it would expand in future as per the needs of the UAE community and the job market," he noted.
In a statement to Emaratalyoum newspaper, Dr al Kaabi said that the university's branch would operate under the umbrella of the Abu Dhabi Education Council (ADEC) and in coordination with Awqaf.
Speaking in detail, al Kaabi stressed that Al Azhar's methodology of moderate and scholarly thinking coupled with its practices, Fatwas, research and studies, preachers, Khateebs and curricula are in line with Awqaf's aspirations in keeping abreast with all developments in the contemporary time and producing an Islamic culture.
"The world nowadays needs the values ​​of Islam to be highlighted amidst accelerating variables that can be governed and guided only by a deep- rooted authoritative reference such as al Azhar and other similar religious entities. Therefore, more coordination and cooperation with such institutions is needed." Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi explained that the agreement signed between Awqaf and Al Azhar for opening the University branch in the UAE had taken effect from the date it was signed on November 25. "As such a team was formed to proceed with meeting the requirements of the competent authorities for opening the branch and receiving students by the beginning of the new academic year 2016/2017," he said.
He reiterated that Awqaf was keenly interested to upgrade its staff and attract the new generations to supplement its departments with preaching, oratory, religious education and Ifta specialists and produce jurisprudential, intellectual and humanitarian research and studies, to name but a few.
Dr al Kaabi underlined that the branch is set to achieve four goals: 1) graduating cadres qualified in Sharia and Arabic sciences from the most prestigious Arab university which has been following the methodology of moderation and tolerance for over 1,000 years, 2) teaching the UAE students the three levels (B.A, M.A and Ph.D.) of the Sharia disciplines, 3) encouraging cultural and scientific exchanges between Awqaf and Al Azhar as well as ensuring quality assurance in the educational and cultural spheres, and 4) co-operating for seconding professors and researchers for the Emirati and expatriate students in the UAE.
Earlier last month, Egypt's Al Azhar represented by Dr Ahmad Mohammed al Tayeb, Grand Imam, and Awqaf represented by its Chairman Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, signed an agreement to open the world's first branch of Al Azhar University in the UAE.
 













