addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Nowadays, the entire world is concerned about the latest increasing terrorist actions that are targeting the human communities all over the world, triggering an era of inflamed cultural discrimination amongst nations and peoples. Such terrorism is not based on any religion, race, sect or civilisation.
This terrorism is the result of the huge gap between the Arab governments and citizens, according to the views of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and it is neither fair nor correct to say that Islam is a source for such a plague. Indeed, throughout the history and the development stages of human communities, Islam, as a divine religion, was continually open to all other nations, civilisations, sciences, arts and beliefs.
This is why, in the recent few years, there has been a consensus amongst many of those with understanding as well as scholars with regards to the need of laying down a comprehensive strategy to protect the communities against such an epidemic and dry up its ideological and methodological resources as well as condemn the brutal and criminal actions. To achieve this, their strategy called for highlighting the true pure essence of Islam, controverting the fallacies of those corruptors, establishing regional and international coalitions to eliminate terrorism and its societal impacts, promoting peaceful co-existence amongst all members of the society members within a nation as well as amongst countries.
In the UAE, we succeeded, thanks to Allah and to the support of the wise leadership, in adopting the methodology of moderation, justice and tolerance based on the authentic Islamic principles. As such, through its religious, academic, cultural and media institutions, the UAE achieved the highest levels of safety and security for the nation, its people and gains. Yet, the risks of the open cyberspace still exist with those who are trying to attract and mobilise followers to Daesh and the similar groups. They are actually destroying countries' borders, desecrating their holy places, abusing their achievements   and violating their sovereignty. A live example of such risks was the al Manara group members who were detected and brought to court by the UAE proficient state security. This terrorist group is part of fire that is igniting in the region.
An international concerted efforts and regional and international coalition have, therefore, become a necessity in order to confront the intercontinental risks of terrorism and root it out in its open and secret hideouts and put an end to its misleading and futile ideologies.    
However, amidst such a heating, there appears in the horizon a sparkle of hope that has the potential to spread the light of stability and welfare in the region and alleviate peoples' distress, being the recent regional Arab Islamic action, particularly in Riyadh, Cairo and Dubai. Such efforts are aimed, with Allah's will, to end a year of sadness and welcome a new year with more optimism, stability and compassion.
As part of the efforts, Saudi Arabia on December 15 announced the formation of Islamic military coalition to combat terrorism. Thus, we are hopeful that such alliance will prove fruitful as a practical response against those racist groups and their culture that is based on clash of civilisations and in the face of all those trying to distort the pure values of Islam and stir up hatred against Muslims.
The new alliance comprises 35 states including the UAE, with a large number of other Islamic states expected to join in the future. The member states decided to set up a joint operations centre based in Riyadh to co-ordinate and support military operations against terrorism. In their announcement, the member states said, "in its formation, the coalition was guided by Allah's orders: "and cooperate in righteousness and piety, but do not cooperate in sin and aggression" as well as by the tolerant principles of Islam and Sharia that prohibits all kinds of terrorism because it is a dreadful crime and an unfair action that is abandoned by all the divine religions and the human norms.
In their announcement, the Muslim leaders revealed the goals of their alliances, being: "terrorist groups and their evil crimes which wreak death and corruption on earth form a serious transgression of human rights, particularly the rights to life and security, and endanger the interests and stability of countries and communities."
In such a movement, the Muslim leaders are following in footsteps of the Prophet pbuh. Scholars reported that a bloody war was fought amongst the Quraish, Sons of Kinana and the Qays al Aylan tribes. The Prophet pbuh took part in it when he was 15 years old where he used to pick up the arrows and hand them to his uncle. The battle was named Al Fijar because blood was spilt during the Haram months (forbidden for fighting). Ending the war, the two sides reached an agreement which was called "Hilf al Fudul (League of virtuous)". According to their agreement, the two sides committed to supporting the oppressed people and detering the oppressor. The Prophet witnessed the formation of the league and after he was blessed with the prophecy, he said, "I witnessed a confederacy in the house of Abdullah bin Jada'an. It was more appealing to me than herds of cattle. Even now in the period of Islam I would respond positively to attending such a meeting if I were invited." This reflects the approach adopted by the messenger of mercy and peace and it is our duty, now, to shed light on it.
On the same day of the announcement of such a military alliance, another important international alliance was announced in Cairo. Such a coalition was a proactive preparation for the Riyadh military coalition in intellectual Fatwa issuance aspects. As such, Egypt's Dar al Ifta inaugurated an international centre gathering all Ifta institutions around the world to confront the "chaos of fatwas", extremism and terrorism. The centre allows exchange of scientific, practical and organisational expertise amongst the members in order to examine the contemporary life issues and use Ijtihad (juristic judgment) to provide code of ethics that are based on the Islamic heritage and open to the development of Fiqh too.
Meanwhile, the Arab Strategy Forum was held in Dubai as a platform for forecasting the future. The forum gathered high profile experts, economists and analysts from around the world with the aim to discuss the geopolitical and economic events faced by the world and Arab region and analyse them to foresee the challenges that the world will face in 2016. Recalling his speech at the Arab Strategy Forum in 2004, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, said, "back then, we mentioned the importance of change to avoid revolutions and we warned against the possibility that the theory of the 'clash of civilisations' may prevail. We also warned against the spread of hatred based on religion, race or sectarian differences. Today we are witnessing the consequences. We are witnessing revolutions and conflicts that have one thing in common; they are against civilisation. What is happening today is a struggle between civilisation and its enemies." Sheikh Mohammed then explained that "to defeat the evil and destructive forces, we need to stop associating them with any civilisation, religion or race."
As we are welcoming a new year, the aforementioned Arab and Islamic efforts aims to build a new world free from the destructive chaos.
The above efforts are also coupled with aspirations that the Abu Dhabi-based "Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies" will bring about fruitful efforts in this regard.
 













