addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Egyptian President, Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, has honoured Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, and seven other religious scholars including six from Egypt and one from Kuwait who have enriched the Islamic way of life with their efforts and thoughts.
During the celebration of the Prophet's birth anniversary in Cairo yesterday, December 22nd, El-Sisi conferred the Science and Arts Medal of First Class  on Dr al Kaabi and Dr Yaqoub al Sanei, Kuwaiti Minister of Awqaf.
A number of Egyptian senior religious scholars praised the honouring by Egypt and its President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the UAE and Dr al Kaabi for his role in supporting the right Islamic discourse.
Dr Mohamed Mukhtar Jumaa, Egyptian Minister of Awqaf, said, "honouring the UAE as represented by Dr al Kaabi confirms the great appreciation that the Egyptian government and people owe to the UAE counterparts. The Egyptian people will forget neither the leading role that the UAE's wise leadership played and is still playing, nor the great support provided by the UAE people. The UAE was and is still the biggest political supporter of Egypt as its diplomacy played a key role in supporting Egypt in all fields, using its international weight and close relations with the western decision-making centres".
"We will never forget the major role played by the Awqaf led by Al Kaabi in confronting fundamentalist and terrorist groups as well as consolidating and disseminating the true teachings and values ​​of Islam away from excessiveness and negligence. Dr Al Kaabi has also played a significant and leading role in supporting the religious conferences held in Egypt and the Islamic countries to confront fundamentalism and anomalous fatwas, the last of which was the establishment of a supreme council of Ifta at the level of the Islamic world," Jumaa added.
For his part, Dr Abdul Fadeel al Qawsi, senior delegate of Al Azhar Imam and Vice Chancellor of Al Azhar University and World Association of Al Azhar Graduates, praised the UAE's role in supporting the various Islamic issues, which reflected positively on the image of Islam in the West and East alike and on the effective Islamic engagement in any activity anywhere in the world for the best interest of Islam and Muslims.
Al Qawsi affirmed that Dr al Kaabi and the Awqaf had spared no effort and made a lot at all levels without exception to consolidate the moderate Islamic culture.
Meanwhile, Dr al Kaabi expressed his great appreciation to the Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi's gesture as embodied in honouring him and granting him the Science and Arts Medal of First Class. He noted that such honour was meant to be for the UAE and its wise leadership and reflected the brotherly relations between the two countries. "It appreciated the efforts exerted based on the directives of the UAE's prudent leadership and confirmed the compatibility of visions, aspirations and attitudes in all fields, particularly those related to fighting extremism and terrorism and standing against the challenges facing the Arab nation," said Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi expressed also his appreciation of the warm welcome received from Al Azhar scholars and the Egyptian people, who sent greetings to the UAE for its role in standing against those who stir up seditions and delude people and confronting fundamentalism and attempts to disrupt the nation, stressing that these excellent relations at all levels would give rise to further close co-operation between the two countries.
Dr al Kaabi thanked the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, for their unlimited support for and close follow-up of the Awqaf's various projects and activities.
 













