addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the birth anniversary of our Master Muhammad bin Abdullah pbuh, the Prophet of mercy and possessor of great character, Awqaf extended heartfelt greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates as well as the UAE, Arab and Muslim people around the world.
This came during Awqaf's event marking the occasion which was held at the Abu Dhabi Theatre in presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, the executive directors from Awqaf and a delegation from al Azhar University alongside a host of people.
Invited to the stage to speak, Dr al Kaabi said, "today marks a great incident in the human history and that of the divine messages and prophecies for Allah, the Almighty says, 'certainly did Allah confer [great] favor upon the believers when He sent among them a Messenger from themselves, reciting to them His verses and purifying them and teaching them the Book and wisdom, although they had been before in manifest error.' (Al Imran: 164)".  
"This beautiful anniversary comes as the world is concerned and suffering from terrorism that has damaged the Islamic world and its civilisation and has distorted the values of the religion more than any other enemy throughout history. Tolerance, and peaceful co-existence between cultures, cooperation and mercy were the glorious merits that Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, praised when He described the Prophet pbuh in His saying 'and We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds.' He also says, 'and indeed, you are of a great moral character,'" added Dr al Kaabi.
"The Prophet's birth anniversary brought a chance to revive such civilised values and reintegrate them in modern values and civilisation. This is our message in this critical period. It is the message of scholars, people of wisdom and thinkers as well as the message of all the influential leaders," added Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying: "for this reason, an international and regional cooperation and alliance have become an urgent need in order to confront such cross-border intercontinental risks of terrorist groups, wipe it out in its open and secret hideouts and put an end to its misleading and futile ideologies."
"Perhaps, there appears in the horizon a glimmer of hope that has the potential to spread the light of stability and welfare in the region and alleviate peoples' distress, being the recent regional Arab Islamic action, particularly in Riyadh, Cairo and Dubai. Such efforts are aimed, with Allah's will, to end a year of sadness and welcome a new year with more optimism, stability and compassion," he added.
Dr al Kaabi explained that, as part of those efforts, on December 15, 2015, the formation of an Islamic military coalition was announced in Riyadh, expressing hope that such alliance will prove fruitful as a practical response to the racist groups and their culture that is based on the clash of civilisations and in the face of all those trying to distort the pure values of Islam and stir up hatred against Muslims.
Dr al Kaabi said the alliance between those Muslim countries followed in the steps of the Prophet Mohammed pbuh, bringing an example when a bloody war was fought amongst the tribes of Quraish and the Qays al Aylan tribes. "At the age of 15, the Prophet pbuh took part in it where he used to pick up the arrows and hand them to his uncle. The war was named Al Fijar because blood was spilt during the Haram months (forbidden for fighting). Ending the war, the two sides reached an agreement which was called "Hilf al Fudul (League of virtuous)". According to their agreement, the two sides committed to supportnig the oppressed people in Mecca and detering the oppressor. The Prophet witnessed the formation of the league and after he was blessed with the prophecy, he said, "I witnessed a confederacy in the house of Abdullah bin Jada'an. It was more appealing to me than herds of cattle. Even now in the period of Islam I would respond positively to attending such a meeting if I were invited."
"This reflects the approach adopted by the messenger of mercy and peace and it is our duty, now, to highlight it," stressed Dr al Kaabi.
"On the same day of the announcement of such a military alliance, another important international coalition was announced in Cairo. Indeed, it was a proactive preparation for the Riyadh military coalition in intellectuals and Fatwa issuance aspects. As such, Egypt's Dar al Ifta inaugurated an international centre gathering all Ifta institutions around the world to face the "chaos of fatwas", extremism and terrorism," said Dr al Kaabi.
"Meanwhile, the Arab Strategy Forum was held in Dubai as a platform for forecasting the future. The forum gathered high profile experts, economists and analysts from all over the world with the aim to discuss the geopolitical and economic events faced by the world and Arab region and analyse them to foresee the challenges that the world will witness in 2016," added Dr al Kaabi.
"Recalling his speech at the Arab Strategy Forum in 2004, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, said, 'to defeat the evil and destructive forces, we need to stop associating them with any civilisation, religion or race," pointed out Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi prayed to Allah, the Most High, to grant success to our leaders in achieving their ambitions in order to restore the true Islam from those who distorted its image and to present the purest and truest image of the Prophet pbuh to the contemporary generations and the world.
Concluding his speech, Dr al Kaabi thanked Al Azhar scholars who visited the UAE to take part in the celebrations, praising the cooperation and coordination between Awqaf and Al Azhar under the prudent leadership of the Grand Imam, His Eminence Dr Ahmed Mohammed Al Tayeb. He also hailed the outstanding relationship between the leaderships of the two brotherly countries, the UAE and Egypt.
Meanwhile, a number of al Azhar's scholars delivered speeches marking this great religious occasion in which they lauded the UAE's astute leadership highlighting their role in bringing prosperity, welfare and development to the country.
Dr Zakariya Omran, from al Azhar, described the Prophet's pbuh birth as the birth of civilisation that brought advancement and civilised co-existence amongst nations and peoples.
Al Azhar's Dr Mahmoud Seddiq al Hawari, also highlighted the values of mercy and forgiveness of the Prophet pbuh.
For his part, Dr Ahmed Al Haddad, Grand Mufti of Dubai, said it was necessary to confront the extremists who do not understand the Prophet's message of mercy and brotherhood.
"Muslims should spread to the world Islam's civilised message, which recognises all humans as Allah's Creations amongst whom the closest to Him are the most beneficial to the mankind," said Dr al Haddad, condemning the violent and radical actions that misrepresent the pure essence of Islam.    
Moreover, Omar Habtour al Derei, a preacher at Awqaf, stressed that the Prophet pbuh was also a great example of how to run a family and society.
"The Prophet's life is filled with examples of mercy and respect for children, women, the elderly and the disabled as well as the animals which were used by people," said al Derei.
 













