addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He instructed His Messenger pbuh to read and made reading a source to progress and happiness. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, in line with His orders: "and fear Allah. And Allah teaches you. And Allah is knowing of all things." (Al Baqara: 282).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that Allah, the Almighty, sent His Prophet Muhammad from amongst an illiterate nation, one that doesn't read or write. With the knowledge and wisdom that Allah the Almighty granted him, the Prophet pbuh turned his nation into a one that reads, writes and possesses wisdom. The Exalted is He says, "it is He who has sent among the unlettered a Messenger from themselves reciting to them His verses and purifying them and teaching them the Book and wisdom - although they were before in clear error." (Al Jumaa: 2). Interpretations to this Aya suggested that people at the Prophet's era were unlettered; they could not read or write. Therefore, Allah, the Most Wise, deemed it appropriate to rise the unlettered amongst His servants to the rank of those who were given knowledge so that they attain the honour of being educated. An evidence of the noble standing of reading, Allah, the Most Sublime, made it the first word in the first verse of the Quran: "Recite in the name of your Lord who created." (Al Alaq: 1). And He further emphasised it by saying, "recite, and your Lord is the most Generous - Who taught by the pen." (Al Alaq: 3-4). This was the beginning of the path of the Prophet's pbuh nation towards literacy and the start of their renaissance and excellence. Indeed, Allah, the Most Gracious, appreciated the people who read and write and seek knowledge and raised their ranks by degrees, for He says, "Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al Mujadala: 11).
O Worshippers,
Please also know that the Prophet pbuh was keenly interested in promoting reading in the society and guiding Muslims to learn writing and reading. Thus, he established a mature and educated nation. As such, the prophet pbuh used to hold writers amongst his companions in a higher position than their peers as was the case with Zaid ibn Thabit, may Allah be pleased with him. He became the writer of the Quran and translator of letters and messages. Moreover, the Messenger of Allah pbuh used to send those who could read amongst the companions to several countries in order to teach the people who lived there how to read the Quran. Thereupon, the Prophet used to say, "convey (my teachings) to the people even if it were a single sentence." In the same regard, the Qurraa (learned men knowing Quran by heart) were the people who used to attend Umar's, may Allah be pleased with him, meetings and his advisors whether they were old or young.
Guided by the Prophet pbuh, his companions, may Allah be pleased with them, learned how to read well and used to compete in memorising and reading the Quran.  This is how Islam instilled passion for reading in the hearts of Arabs and Muslims, who came to ladle out from the various sources of knowledge, culture and sciences. As such, their era witnessed a remarkably active movement of writing, compilation and translation from other languages and cultures. Libraries were the most precious gains of the Islamic civilisation which featured some of the biggest and richest libraries in the world throughout several centuries. A manifest evidence to such cultural renaissance is the libraries of Al Medina, Mecca, Jerusalem, Cairo, Baghdad and Damascus. Such cultural edifices constituted a genuine proof of how the Arabs and Muslims highly valued reading.
 
O Believers, 
Readings has great benefits and profound impact. It is a means for science and knowledge that Allah, the Most Gracious, has truly honoured as well as a road for obtaining elite ranks. Reading enlightens minds and expands readers' perceptions, giving them further insight, knowledge and wisdom. Through reading civilisations can be established and cultures co-exist for it introduces readers to the cultural and scientific products of others. Reading nurtures minds of readers, puts them ahead of others and enables them to establish constructive communication with other nations, peoples and cultures. By reading beneficial books, a door will be opened for the readers to acquire all kinds of knowledge and get exposed to different arts, inventions and innovations. The reason is that each author, composer, compiler or translator would have enclosed the essence of their knowledge, skills and expertise within their books so as those who read them would be able to improve their capabilities and expand their perceptions.
O Servants of Allah,
Having clarified such great merits of reading please be aware that one of the best values that we should instil in our children is the love for reading. So doing, we can raise a generation that is fortified with profound knowledge and beneficial culture. Furthermore, each book has its own merit, and the best book to read is the Quran. We should recite Quran humbly and ponder over its meanings. Indeed, Quran is the ever-lasting miraculous book through which mankind can advance and achieve high ranks. For this reason, Allah, the Exalted, promised many-fold rewards for reciting each letter of the Holy Quran, as the Prophet pbuh said, "whoever recites a letter from Allah's Book, then he receives the reward from it, and the reward of ten-fold of it. I do not say that Alif Lam Meem is a letter, but Alif is a letter, Lam is a letter and Meem is a letter."
Reading together is a powerful tool in motivating your child to read. Therefore, we need to sit and read with our children. Another beneficial means of helping them benefit from their readings is to encourage them to note down the words and phrases that carry beautiful meanings and strong denotations as well as use them in their daily conversations. This way, their perceptions will get expanded and their ability to memorise will be boosted. In this connection, an important thing to remember is that we should ensure to suggest for them the books that will be beneficial for them, provide them with the correct information and the righteous moderate culture.
Truly, in reading there is peace of mind and happiness. To this effect, a poet said, "and the best companion at all times is the book."
Another successful approach to motivating your child to read is to keep a family bookshelf at home and make sure there are many books that suit all the family members. The bookshelf should preferably be placed in a reachable corner and contain a variety of books about sciences, arts and other brain nurturing ones. By so doing, they will become avid readers, and thus, the habit of reading will become part of the life of every member of the society.
O Worshippers,
One of the abundant advantages of reading is that it helps boost the talent of writing and the ability to do good compilation. Through reading knowledge of sciences and cultures get stored in the brain, and once matured, useful ideas will emerge and one will be able write them down on papers. This is how valuable books that are rich in knowledge get produced for people to read and benefit from. Certainly, the benefits of such books will spread in the community, enlightening insights and opening minds to new perspectives and fields of knowledge.
With this in mind, let us beseech Allah to teach us what is beneficial for us, and make us benefit from what He taught us. May Allah beautify our souls with knowledge, understanding and wisdom.
O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
 
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is Allah's servant and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Worshippers,
Please be aware that the best provision for the Day of Judgment is the fear of Allah, and know that reading is the best provision that mankind can take for achieving prosperity in this world and win the best ranks in the Hereafter. From this perspective, our wise leaders have shown a great interest in encouraging reading. To achieve this, they directed for holding several book fairs and urged reading through launching several initiatives and competitions for which they allocated valuable awards and rewards. One such initiative is the declaration of 2016 the "Year of Reading" by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
It is also good to mention that the best way to benefit from our time is in spending a good portion of it in reading books. For example, one can read while waiting to see a doctor at hospitals or clinics, at government customer service centres or while aboard a means of transport, to mention a few.
On the same matter, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, may Allah protect him, also launched a brainstorming initiative through the hashtag "Year_of_Reading". The session was aimed at garnering people's ideas and opinions to establish reading as a community habit. It was aimed to create a long-term strategy that will make reading as part of our culture, identity and lives of future generations. Upon launching the hashtag, Sheikh Mohammed said: "Scientists, researchers and innovators those who will lead our future can only be found through the love of reading and the passion and curiosity to acquire knowledge. We aim to raise a generation of readers and instill the UAE as a hub for content and knowledge."       
 
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Lord, give us Fiqh in religion and make easy for us the path to knowledge and the means of reading, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners.
O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O the Lord of the Worlds, we implore You at this instance not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a debt unsettled. Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with words and deeds those gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Deputy, his trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
 
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 
 













