addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf unveiled that, during 2015, it had appointed 327 Emiratis as administrators and Holy Quran tutors at the Quran memorisation centres across the UAE, in addition to opening 5 new Quran memorisation centres in Abu Dhabi, Umm Al Quwain, Ras Al Khaimah and the Western Region. This came in implementation of its Cabinet-approved strategic plan for 2015.
Awqaf also revealed that Quran memorisers at the Quran memorisations centres and mosque sessions have completed 1000 Khatmas (recitation of the whole Quran) for the soul of the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, as part of its activities during last year's Holy month of Ramadan.
In implementation of its executive plan, Awqaf's department of religious centres and institutes also participated in overseeing and executing local competitions, such as Sheikha Hessa bint Mohammed Al Nahyan Quran Award for Holy Quran, the Holy Quran Tajweed contest, honing the skills of Emiratis who were gifted with pleasant voice in reciting the Holy Quran and helping them to record their recitations.
On another note, the number of centres managed by Awqaf during 2015 have reached 55 centres, in addition to 18 local ones and 577 Quran memorisation mosque sessions with 36,894 students.
Awqaf's Executive Director, Obeid al Mazrouei, said the outstanding progress of the Holy Quran memorisation centres was made thanks to the support by the UAE's wise leaders who were keenly interested in raising generations who recite the Holy Quran, ponder its meanings, adhere to its teachings and adopt the culture of moderation.
Al Mazrouei praised the unlimited support by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, to Quran memorisation centres, bringing their level of performance to the highest standards adopted in the Muslim world. He supplicated to the Almighty Allah to grant Sheikh Mohammed good rewards for his unswerving support following in steps of the late Founding Father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who first established Quran memorisation centers in the UAE and gave them a special care.
As part of its strategic plan, Awqaf also launched a range of initiatives and programmes that included awareness campaigns to educate the society members about the vital role of the Holy Quran memorisation centres, the Holy Quran recitation and Tajweed competition, memorisation sessions at mosques for people with special needs in Abu Dhabi, Khor Fakkan, Al Ain and the Western region as well as improving the performance of its administrative staff and Quran tutors through symposiums and training workshops. The activities included, as well, the annual meeting for Quran memorisation centres' staff, a workshop for heads of departments and another one to introduce the team to the mechanisms of the competition, in addition to a workshop about first aid procedures. One more training was conducted for outstanding Quran tutors.
Amongst other achievements by Awqaf during 2015 was the completion of the first phase of the Quran memorisation centres' electronic system infrastructure, with the aim to meet the growing needs by the centres, the launch of smart applications in line with the requirements of the wise government as well as the improvement of the Quran memorisation methodology at mosques.
Furthermore, Awqaf's department of religious centres and institutes laid down teaching plans for Quran and its sciences. To that effect, through the preliminary stage, curriculums were issued including "Quran Buds" books for the youngsters, first and second levels, as an addition to the previous editions. Meanwhile, for the memorisation stage, all curriculums were translated into English, Urdu and Malabari languages. For the licensing stage, a book on "licensing with sound chain of authorities" was also issued. 
Throughout its march, Awqaf was steadfast on adopting the authentic culture of moderation and tolerance that constitutes the essence of the Islamic Sharia. Such culture is consistent with the UAE wise leaders' approach that has brought the country to be an example to emulate by the world's countries in tolerance, respect to others, and peaceful co-existence amongst all cultures in the UAE. Awqaf is also working on developing the religious discourse on several levels, including: preparation of qualified cadres in Fiqh, Fatwa and enlightened thinking; development of Fatwas through communal audit; enhancement of Friday sermons by making them simple and moderate, as well as development of the religious discourse in the media through specialised speakers. 
 













