addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He rewards His persevering servants and bestows abundant rewards upon those of patience. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He endured extreme hardships in the way of Allah until he succeeded in conveying his message and fulfilling his trust. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imran: 200).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that Allah, the Sublime, created mankind, made him upon the earth a successive authority, provided him with great potentials and granted him glorious merits. He blessed the human being with reason and determination and subjected to him whatever is in the heavens and that on the earth for him to build it and bring prosperity to it. The Exalted is He says, "and He has subjected to you whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth - all from Him. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought." (Al Jathiya: 13). For one to fulfill the trust that Allah, the Almighty, kept in his custody, he should be characterised with perseverance and patience and show keenness to keep high performance, sustain excellence, progress and do work to his best in line with the Prophet's pbuh directives: "Verily, Allah loves that when anyone of you does a job he should perfect it." Indeed, the perfection in work that Allah, the Most Glorious, loves requires man to endure difficulties and be determined to achieve his setout goals despite all challenges and life pressure as well as to overcome temptations. On this matter, the Messenger of Allah said, "the Paradise is surrounded by hardships and the Hell-Fire is surrounded by temptations."
O Worshippers,
Please also know that one can exhibit the ability to endure hardships and tolerate challenges in many ways. For instance, the Messenger of Allah pbuh endured adversities and suffered a lot in order to guide people to the way of Allah. He demonstrated patience facing the extreme harm caused to him by the people of Quraish over thirteen years. They mistreated him, his family and companions and boycotted all members of his tribe forcing them to do their second migration to an area called Shib Abi Talib where they fed on tree leaves for three years. They suffered with patience and the Prophet pbuh showed unwavering determination to fulfill his trust and achieve his mission. As a result, he succeeded in uniting the people, stopping blood shedding, safeguarding their honour and protecting their rights and properties. With him, Allah fulfilled all His matter and sealed His messages. Thus, it is the duty of every Muslim to take example of the Prophet pbuh and demonstrate patience and resolution. This can be done by returning the misdeeds with good ones, facing sins with forgiveness and forbearance following in that in steps of our Master Muhammad pbuh. He was characterised with patience, good companionship, kind speech, mercy and compassion. He never used to return an evil with an evil, but rather he was pardoning and forgiving. On this matter, Anas bin Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated, "while I was going along with Allah's Messenger pbuh who was wearing a Najrani Burd (sheet) with a thick border, a Bedouin overtook the Prophet pbuh and pulled his Rida' (sheet) forcibly. I looked at the side of the shoulder of the Prophet pbuh and noticed that the edge of the Rida' had left a mark on it because of his strong pull. The Bedouin said, 'O Muhammad! Order for me some of Allah's property which you have.' The Prophet pbuh turned towards him, (smiled) and ordered that he be given something."
Indeed, there are great lessons that can be drawn from the Prophet's way of life; the foremost of which is shouldering responsibility. He taught us that every human being, from his own position, has a responsibility to take. For example, an employee is responsible to perform his tasks wherever he is, and so is the judge, the physician, the engineer, the teacher, the journalist, the Imam, the soldier and the policeman as well as all craftsmen. They are all responsible to build their homeland, serve their society and bring happiness to people. The same way, parents has a responsibility to take up in terms of family life. In order to keep up a cohesive family, they should demonstrate strength, determination, and wisdom. Every parent is accountable to face the pressure and challenges of life while retaining patience in raising up their children, guiding their behaviour and correcting their misdeeds. In this regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "a husband is a guardian of his family and is responsible for it and a lady is a guardian of her husband's house and is responsible for it."
Dear Muslims,
Carrying out grand duties with efficiency and perfection is one representation of the meaning of being responsible. The Prophet's pbuh companions set an example to emulate in hard work and dedication no matter how big the workload was. On this account, Zaid bin Thabit, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him, said to him, "You are a wise young man and we do not have any suspicion about you, and you used to write the Divine Inspiration for Allah's Messenger pbuh. So you should search for the fragmentary scripts of the Quran and collect it (in one Book)." Zaid further said: "By Allah, if Abu Bakr had ordered me to shift a mountain among the mountains from one place to another it would not have been heavier for me than this ordering me to collect the Quran." Then Zaid said, "So I started compiling the Quran by collecting it from the leafless stalks of the date-palm tree and from the pieces of leather and hides and from the stones, and from the chests of men (who had memorised the whole Quran)." Thus, with perseverance and by being responsible, Zaid carried out a glorious work that has survived throughout the ages gifting us the Holy Quran that, today, we are able to read in one book.
In our contemporary life, a unique example in endurance and responsibility was also set by the Founder of our country and the builder of our renaissance, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He was up to the responsibility, achieved noble goals and surmounted challenges until our beloved UAE became a powerful country whose people are rejoicing happiness and welfare and its culture overflows with goodness and benevolence. 
With this in mind, we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to protect our UAE, bless our leadership and preserve our unity and strength. May Allah guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He has commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).          
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah for bestowing upon us countless bounties. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, the Most High, the Exalted. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is Allah's servant and His chosen Messenger. May the abundant peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, honest, loyal and pious companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
Please know that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Glorious, and showing gratitude to our wise leaders who shouldered their responsibility in building this country and providing the best services to its people. Indeed, it is one of Allah's favours upon us in the UAE that He blessed us with a prudent leadership that established justice, took care of our interests, strived to ensure our comfort and secure our stability and safety. In fact, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, has set an example for us in appreciating the efforts exerted by his brother leaders. As such, he extended his thanks and appreciation to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, marking the 10th anniversary of his accession to Ruler of Dubai. A decade of governance during which Allah blessed Sheikh Mohammed with success to foresee the future, accomplish achievements, surmount difficulties and challenges, form national work teams, enroot national unity, lead a strong and sustainable national economy as well as launch several unique national initiatives that aimed at bringing happiness to people and serve the interests of the homeland.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings upon the Prophet pbuh for the Almighty Allah says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Allah, we beseech you to make us amongst those who possess perseverance and patience and grant us success to do all that is good. O Allah please make easy for us all our matters, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious, the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
 
O Lord of the Worlds, please forgive us all our sins for no one forgives sins but You. Please guide us to the best of manners for none can guide to the best of them but You. O Allah, please protect us from bad manners for none can protect against them but You, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













