addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He adorned us with faith and prohibited us from apostasy, evildoing and disobedience to Him. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and all the praises are due to Him. He is Omnipotent. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He called for the enlightening Sharia and warned against affliction and Takfir (accusation of fellow Muslims of apostasy). May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O Servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is acquainted with what you do." (Al Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
Please also be aware that the Prophet pbuh was sent with a great message that was aimed at bringing welfare and happiness to mankind and ensuring peace, safety and tranquillity to them. As such, amongst the fundamental basics of his message was the belief in the pillars of faith about which he said: "faith is that you believe in Allah, His angels, His Books, His Messengers and in the Last Day, and in Fate (Qadar), both in its good and in its evil aspects." Thus, he who believed in those pillars would be a Muslim even if he failed to do some of his duties. Indeed, faith is embraced in the heart and no one can see what is in the heart except Allah, the Knowing of the unseen. It is forbidden, therefore, to raise doubt about one's being a Muslim so long as he/she recited the Muslim profession of faith. In this regard, it was narrated that Osama bin Zaid, may Allah be pleased with them, caught hold of a man in a battle, and when the man saw the sword said, "There is no God but Allah." Zaid killed him. It once occurred to him and he talked about it to the Prophet pbuh. Thereupon, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Did he profess: 'there is no God but Allah,' and even then you killed him?" Zaid said, "O Messenger of Allah, he made a profession of it out of fear of the weapon." The Prophet pbuh observed, "Did you tear open his heart in order to find out whether it had professed or not?"
Thus, it is abandoned to accuse a fellow Muslim of apostasy so long as they declared the best and highest of the branches of faith. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Faith has over seventy branches or over sixty branches, the most excellent of which is the declaration that there is no God but Allah."
O Servants of Allah,
A ruling on Takfir is a judgment that only Allah, the Exalted is He, has the right to make and He only authorised a judge to rule in it. Verily, amongst the most extremely serious attributes that can be ever marked to a Muslim is to accuse them of being unbelievers and ostracising them from Islam and Muslims. The reason is that this will consequently lead to implementing other relative Islamic laws on them; such as inheritance, marriage and burial, to mention a few. Indeed, our history is full of examples about people who fell in sin by accusing others of apostasy out of misunderstanding. Thus, beware not to commit such a fault based on false information or interpretations. People who do that will confuse others' belief by pretending to be executing the laws of Islam, yet in reality they will be trying to demolish it. On this matter, Allah, the Most Gracious says, "and of the people is he whose speech pleases you in worldly life, and he calls Allah to witness as to what is in his heart, yet he is the fiercest of opponents. And when he goes away, he strives throughout the land to cause corruption therein and destroy crops and animals. And Allah does not like corruption." (Al Baqara: 204-205).
The Takfiri groups spread corruption on the earth. They have taken it upon themselves to declare "apostates" various rulers, scientists, peoples, societies, governments and armies. In the name of Takfir, those groups went on shedding blood, disgracing honours, and looting funds. Such an ideological plague was deeply rooted in the history and started with the emergence of Kharijites (Khawarij) who broke into revolt against the authority of the Caliph Ali ibn Abu Talib, may Allah be pleased with him, and accused him of apostasy. Their radical approach is being adopted by some extremist groups in our contemporary age who are killing the life which Allah has forbidden except for a just cause. Those have abandoned the commandment of the Prophet pbuh during Hajjat al Wadaa (Farewell Pilgrimage) when he addressed the people saying, "do not revert to disbelief after me by striking (cutting) the necks of one another." In interpretation of this Hadith, the Imam al Nawawi said it meant: "do not call one another as unbelievers that you make fighting each other lawful." On the same Hadith, Ibn Abdul bir al Maliki said, "it means that a Muslim pronouncing a fellow Muslim as an apostate on account of a sin or an interpretation is forbidden."
Dear Muslims,
The Prophet pbuh warned against Takfir and regarded it as the killing of a Muslim because of its tremendous dangerous risks. On this matter, he said, "whoever accuses a believer of disbelief, then it is as if he had killed him." In evidence of the great dangerous consequences of Takfir, the Prophet pbuh has even warned that accusing people of disbelief falsely is one of the gravest of the major sins as he said, "any person who called his brother: 'O unbeliever' (has in fact done an act by which this unbelief) would return to one of them. If it were so, as he asserted (then the unbelief of man was confirmed but if it was not true), then it returned to him (to the man who labeled it on his brother Muslim)." And he further emphasised: "when a man calls his brother unbeliever, it returns (at least) to one of them." In this Hadith there is a promise of severe punishment to those who accuse Muslims of apostasy.
Guided by the Prophet pbuh, the companions, may Allah be pleased with them, followed in his steps and warned people about Takfir and its serious ramifications. On this account, it was narrated that Abu Sufyan said that he asked Jabir ibn Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with them: "did you [the Companions] used to call anyone from the People of the Qibla [i.e. Muslims], 'disbeliever'?" Jabir replied: "No!" Abu Sufyan continued: "did you call anyone from them 'Mushrik (polytheist)'?" Jabir said, "I seek refuge with Allah!"
On the same matter, it was narrated that Ali ibn Abu Talib, may Allah be please with him, was once asked if the Kharijites who repelled against him were "Mushrikun (polytheists)". Thereupon, he said, "they fled because of polytheism." As such, whoever accused a Muslim of apostasy would have exceeded their limits and made themselves partners to Allah, the Almighty, in His right to rule a judgment on Takfir for He is the only one to have such a right.
With this in mind, we implore to Allah, the Exalted, to give us Fiqh in our religion and protect our homeland. May Allah guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me, you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is Allah's servant and His Messenger. May the abundant peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, honest, loyal and pious companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Worshippers,
Please know that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Glorious, following the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh and seeking advice from the people of knowledge for they are the heirs of the Prophets. Allah, the Exalted is He, ordered us to ask them about our matters, for He says, "so ask the people of the message if you do not know." (An-Nahl: 43). On the same matter, Abullah bin Masood, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "the people will remain upon goodness so long as they seek knowledge from their elders, the people of authority on them and their scholars. But if they take the knowledge from the young and evil ones they will be destroyed." This is because, unlike the youngsters, the elders will, eventually, have experience and wisdom and their feet will be firmly established so that they do not follow their whims and desires, nor will they be dominated by greed or Satan. Thus, their knowledge will be trusted.
From this perspective, it is our duty, to combat the Takfiri ideology because it is absolutely alien to Islam and its peaceful principles. It divides people instead of joining their hands. It aims to destroy nations and not to build them. Also, it is our duty to hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together, protect our unity, obey our rulers for whoever obeyed the ruler would have obeyed Allah, and pray to the Almighty to grant our rulers success and righteousness.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh for the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Allah, we beseech you to guide us to be moderate in line with your orders and bestow on us the blessing of understanding and righteousness. O Allah, please keep us away from deviation, extremism and corruption, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord of the Worlds, please forgive us all our sins for no one forgives sins but You. Please guide us to the best of manners for none can guide to the best of them but You. O Allah, please protect us from bad manners for none can protect against them but You, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with what gets us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Most Gracious, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic texts.
 













