addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Based on its strategic vision in building the nation and the human being according to an unbiased methodology, both intellectually and ideologically, the UAE has over many years embarked on a consistent approach to promoting all the constructive humanitarian values, and endorsed all the methods that were conducive to contribute to building its people. As such, it has kept all the gates wide open for them to develop their thinking and promote their behaviour and good conduct. By so doing, the UAE aimed to allow its people to actively take their responsibility towards the world; a role they wouldn't have been able to play had they been subject to narrow stereotype-based perspectives, reliant on the past achievements and unprepared for facing the future.
These statements came in a bulletin issued by The Emirates Center for Strategic Studies and Research (ECSSR) entitled "Boosting Religious Tolerance".
The bulletin underlined that the UAE's leadership had understood, at an early stage, the key role of the correct perception of religion in defining Muslims' behaviour, especially at a time that is characterised by ideological clashes and where the role of religious extremism in fanning the flames of many intolerance problems is being widely highlighted.
The ECSSR's bulletin further stated that the UAE has recognised the fact of being a country where various nationalities, religions and cultures co-exist and, hence, succeeded in embracing such diversity while maintaining its original religious identity.
"That is why the UAE ensured that mosques on its land serve their enlightening purpose in meeting the worldly needs of people and stimulating their positive thinking, as well as their eschatological mission in encouraging righteous deeds, cement the good values and guide people to all that serve their wellbeing," the bulletin stressed.
It underlined that the UAE's Awqaf had played a prominent role in enhancing the true mission of Islam and promoting the culture of religious tolerance by providing plenty of religious publications and keeping pace with the country's approach to develop the religious discourse so as to reflect the principle of moderation that constitutes the cornerstone of Islam.
"As part of its consistent endeavour to develop the religious culture in the society, Awqaf distributed around 270,000 copies of the Holy Quran during 2015, in addition to 348,000 copies of books about ideology, Fiqh, Quran science, Sunna and the Prophet's biography, to mosques, Quran memorisation centres, pilgrims, ministries, universities and schools inside and outside the UAE. These are but a part of Awqaf's publications which reached around 4.5 million Qurans over the past few years," the bulletin explained.
 













