addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has started putting into effect the first phase of the "Suqya Al Maa" (Water distribution), a Waqf project. The second phase will be completed in future to cover all mosques across the UAE.
The Waqf department at Awqaf has made available 375,000 dispensers that will be placed on user-friendly shelves for worshipers inside mosques.
HE Khaled al Neyadi, Executive Director for Waqf Affairs, affirmed that Awqaf's board of directors earmarked funding for the first phase of the project for Abu Dhabi mosques with the aim of providing "Suqya Al Maa" inside mosques in a civilised way. To achieve this, Awqaf contracted with a major water producer in the UAE to supply packs of different sizes, he explained.
As part of the first phase of the project, packs of different sizes will be provided on specially designed stands, al Neyadi said, noting that Awqaf welcomes donations from water producers across the UAE in the form of packs of different sizes to serve mosque goers.
Al Neyadi explained that Awqaf sought to expand the scope of participation in the project by allowing individuals, companies, organisations and families to donate quantities of water by sending an SMS to the value of AED 20 to Etisalat number "9020".
In order to provide drinking water inside mosques at all times, he said, Awqaf assigned a specialised company to manufacture stands with a load capacity of over 200 packs of different sizes each.
Al Neyadi affirmed also that the "Suqya Al Maa" project would provide drinking water to all worshipers in a civilised manner that would reflect the civilised image of UAE mosques.
"The 'Suqya Al Maa' project observes the Prophetic Sunna and is in line with the Hadith that says, 'there is no charity greater in reward than water.' It also reflects the Islamic heritage and authentic values," he underlined.
Al Neyadi further stressed that the project is part of its strategic plans, through which it seeks to develop the Waqf, expand its disbursement channels and improve its resources. He noted that Waqf saw remarkable expansion over the past years thanks to the special interest of philanthropists who responded positively to Awqaf's endowments projects and campaigns.
 













