addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In implementation of the agreement signed between Awqaf and the Sudanese Ministry of Irshad and Awqaf (Guidance and Endowments), the first training course for a group of Sudanese Imams and Khateebs kicked off at Awqaf's training centre for Imams, Khateebs and preachers in Abu Dhabi.
The inauguration ceremony was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, HE Ahmed Ibrahim Ahmad, the vice-head of the diplomatic mission to Abu Dhabi, and Awqaf's senior officials.
Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he welcomed the participants and said: "you are in your second country, the UAE; a country in which the late founding father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, consolidated the values of philanthropy, cooperation, moderation, tolerance and forbearance that form the essence of Islam."
Dr al Kaabi prayed to Allah to grant continued health to the leaders of the UAE's development and excellence march headed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Deputy Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi also supplicated to Allah to protect the governments and the people of the UAE and the brotherly Republic of Sudan as well as the Arab and Islamic countries against the evil actions of the extremist groups that are driving violence, shedding blood, blasting mosques and distorting the pure image of Islam in the modern age.
"We invite you today to learn about the UAE's experience in confronting extremism, developing the religious discourse, promoting the principles of moderation and tolerance and guiding communities on the righteous path of mercy, piety and forbearance," Dr al Kaabi said.
"While we have a great respect to the scholarly institutions in Sudan as these are equipped with appropriate knowledge and expertise, we also admit that, today, we are on the same boat and concerted efforts are needed to confront such serious challenges brought by the malicious groups and organisations. All of us in the Islamic world, including scholars, Fatwa centres, Khateebs, Imams, preachers and mass media representatives, are responsible to fight those groups and their distorted ideologies," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
"Our training courses address Sharia's goals, Sharia's vision about national duties, dialogue etiquette, the importance of security and stability, Fiqh in the modern age, the fundamentals of moderate religious discourse, peaceful coexistence and the art of dealing with others, Khateeb's key elements of success and immunisation against the impacts of extremism. With such courses we have started a new civilised modern project that aims to demonstrate the Islamic noble values, culture and beauty from a common perspective that we all share in producing and nurturing amongst our communities as well as across the world," Dr al Kaabi noted.
Dr al Kaabi concluded with further hailing the cooperation between the leaderships of the UAE and Sudan and thanked the embassy of the Republic of Sudan for its extra efforts to make such courses a success.
 
 
 













