addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said the UAE has set an example in addressing extremism sources, refining education curriculums and media programmes as well as controlling Fatwas. Such measures formed a firewall against publications and printings that promote misleading concepts and distort the true image of Islam, he added.
"During 2015, Awqaf built 134 new mosques across the UAE and furnished another 555 mosques. Currently, we are focusing on constructing and rejuvenating around 627 mosques around the UAE," Dr al Kaabi said.
In a statement to al Bayan newspaper, Dr al Kaabi stated that, during the past year, Awqaf also completed the construction of Asharej Centre, another one in the commercial city centre and a third one in Al Ain, in addition to several projects across UAE with a total cost of AED 126 million.
Leadership
Dr al Kaabi underlined that the UAE has a leading experience in producing a religious discourse that recognises the current realities and understands life's variables, noting that many Arab and Islamic countries sought to learn from such an experience.
"Today, people in 218 countries around the world are browsing and benefiting from Awqaf's website," Dr al Kaabi said.
He talked about the latest developments on the religious arena in the UAE and Awqaf's efforts in religious matters like Quran memorisation centres, Waqf, Hajj, Fatwas, media, development of Friday sermons and mosques affairs.
Projects
Elaborating on Awqaf's projects, Dr al Kaabi said it had inaugurated around 134 new mosques across the emirates in addition to furnishing 555 mosques, while currently it is focusing on building mosques in around 627 sites all over the UAE (demolishing and rebuilding) using designs that are inspired by the Emirati culture and enriched with the Islamic heritage with modern touches that keep pace with the urban renaissance in the country.
"In view of such achievements, Awqaf would like to extend its sincere appreciation to the UAE wise leadership and giving people for their continuous support to its projects, helping it keep pace with the comprehensive renaissance in the country," Dr al Kaabi said.
"As for the other Waqf projects, the entity completed in 2015 the Asharej centre, the commercial city centre mall and Awqaf's branch in Al Ain, as well as several other projects across the UAE with a total cost of AED 126 million, the proceeds of which has already started to boost Awqaf's financial resources. Such revenues are expected to reach around AED 66 million yearly," Dr al Kaabi added.
Addressing the root cause of extremism
On the strategies implemented by Awqaf to counter the radical religious discourse and measures undertaken to uncover the evil goals of the extremist ideologies and immunise the society against its dangers, Dr al Kaabi stressed that Awqaf exerted significant efforts in this regard, the outcomes of which were hailed by many Islamic research centres, entities and figures. "The UAE has set an example to be followed in addressing extremism sources, refining curriculums and media programmes as well as controlling Fatwas. Such precautions formed a firewall against publications and printings that promote misleading concepts and distort the true image of Islam," he added.
Qualification Standards
Dr al Kaabi further explained: "Such efforts were boosted by the appropriate administrative and educational control applied in the Quran memorisation centres as well as the implementation of the ministerial decree number 39/2012 that banned using mosques in prohibited activities or to conduct unauthorised meetings or lessons. Measures also included continuous assessment of Imams, Khateebs, preachers and teachers as well as requiring high credential standards for employing them while ensuring they adopt a moderate religious discourse."
"The aim is to protect the society against extremist ideologies and promote the values of moderation, tolerance and peaceful coexistence which form the essence of Islam," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Religious Discourse
Dr al Kaabi emphasised that the UAE has a leading experience in producing a religious discourse that is based on the values of Islam and developments of the present time, noting that several countries in the Arab and Islamic world were keenly interested in benefiting from such an experience.
"I have highlighted in the First Arab Thinkers Forum, hosted recently by the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research, that the UAE has set an example in controlling the religious discourse, especially in using a unified Friday sermon across the country's mosques in order to protect worshipers against misleading and corrupt concepts, particularly amongst the youth," Dr al Kaabi said.
Electronic transformation
Regarding Awqaf's plans relating to the electronic transformation and developing smart applications to reach out to wider audience, Dr al Kaabi stressed that such a transformation came in response to the rapid advancement witnessed worldwide in the usage of smart technologies as well as in line with the UAE mGovernment vision, which Awqaf is striving to implement in response to the initiative by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, that supports innovation in order to achieve the "No. 1" strategic objective.
Awqaf's website
Dr al Kaabi stated that Awqaf's website attracted around 5.4 million visits in 2015, an estimated increase of over 100 per cent compared to 2014, in which the website recorded 2.63 million visits. The number of page visits also saw a remarkable rise at 4 million, being an increase of approximately 111 per cent over 2014 when the website received around 2 million hits, he added.
"New visitors to the website formed more than 73 per cent, a rate that reflects the public's interest in the website in general and in keeping abreast of its content updates in particular. The number of page hits also saw a significant rise at 8.73 million, an increase of 65 per cent compared to 2014," Dr al Kaabi said.
97 per cent
"Awqaf's website always holds advanced positions among national and regional websites. In 2015, an assessment of the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority classified it among the distinguished categories, scoring 97 per cent overall," Dr al Kaabi added.
"Culminating those achievements, Awqaf was awarded the best government service on smartphones in social affairs category at the closing ceremony of the World Government Summit," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
96 per cent pilgrim's satisfaction in 2015 
Dr al Kaabi further underscored that according to a recent opinion poll conducted by a specialised independent entity, Awqaf received 96 per cent UAE pilgrim's satisfaction in 2015, describing it as an impressive achievement.
"Such outstanding results are the fruits of the UAE wise leadership's unremitting support to Hajj affairs in the country as well as the hard work round the year by Hajj and Umrah department at Awqaf," Dr al Kaabi stressed.
Field tours
"The Official Hajj Mission's committees conducted 403 daily inspections and field tours of the Hajj campaigns in the holy sites. This reflected an elevated level of performance this year, considering that the number of complaints was brought to a minimum. No campaign was cancelled and no activity of any campaign was suspended. Only 8 warning letters were issued this year as compared to 54 in 2013, which saw the number decreasing on an annual basis", said Dr al Kaabi.
Quran memorisation centres
Regarding Awqaf's plans to develop the Quran memorisation centres across the UAE, Dr al Kaabi said, "the topmost achievements in terms of teaching at those centres is the preparation of specialised curriculums that suit students of all ages. While putting those curriculums, Awqaf ensured following a moderate approach and simple methods in Quran interpretations, assessment, memorisation and reciting. This is reflected in a unique interest by male and female students in joining those centres where around 42000 students joined 73 centres and 577 lessons at mosques which also included lessons for people with special needs." 
Dr al Kaabi also noted that the Quran memorisation centres offered jobs for around 400 Emirati males and females, stressing that one of the most distinguished initiatives by those centres was the 1000 Quran Khatmahs (supplication upon completion of reading Quran) gifted to the soul of Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul, during last year's holy month of Ramadan.
With regards to the opening of a branch for al Azhar university in UAE, Dr al Kaabi affirmed that the university would open next academic year in Al Ain city with three specialisations: Islamic Education, Islamic Daawa and Islamic Studies in foreign languages. According to the agreement, the branch will be expanded according to the requirements, he added.
Awqaf's website
On the fact that visitors of Awqaf's website coming from 218 countries around the world, Dr al Kaabi said, "this steady rise in the number of users of the Awqaf's website is due to several factors including credibility and public trust in the moderate religious discourse adhered to by the UAE, which is the state of tolerance, moderation and respect of peoples' cultures and civilisations, this being the essence of authenticity and modernity."
Another factor lies in the regular update of the website's content in both Arabic and English and addition of new electronic services that ensured users quick and effective access, Dr al Kaabi added, noting that Awqaf also launched an updated user-friendly version with stronger structure to achieve a positive interaction with users through multiple channels of communication.
 













