addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf honoured its IT department employees upon Awqaf App had won the Best mGovernment Service Award in the social affairs category at the closing ceremony of the World Government Summit.
Awqaf's smart applications provide information that answers the daily life needs for a wide segment of the society in the UAE in particular. The App contains information such as Fatwas, Masjid locations, prayers times, Friday sermons and the lessons at mosques. All information issued by Awqaf enjoys credibility and public trust thanks to its approach of moderation, tolerance and harmony.
Awqaf App provides a unified platform that gives users access to its electronic services destined to individuals and entities. It contains several sections; the first section contains Fatwa questions and answers with the ability to send any question by SMS or email, in addition to an archive of Fatwas organised by topics. The second section is Masjid which helps users to know prayer times, Qibla direction and the nearest Msajid to them. The Hajj and Umrah section contains rites and pilgrims can send their suggestions and complaints as well as know the contact details of all accredited Hajj and Umrah operators in the UAE. Users can also get more information about Sheik Zayed Mosque with pictures supported by a panorama technology, look up Friday sermons, read them, listen to them and download them. Moreover, users can browse and download books and publications by Awqaf and follow up its news and activities as well as get information on Waqf disbursement channels and mPayment feature.
Awqaf's website attracted around 5.4 million visits in 2015, an estimated increase of over 100 per cent compared to 2014, in which the website registered 2.63 million visits. The number of page visits also saw a remarkable increase of 4 million, being a rise of approximately 111 per cent over 2014 when the website received around 2 million hits. Visitors come from 218 countries.
In the honouring ceremony, which was attended by Awqaf's executive directors, department directors and staff, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, extended his thanks to all male and female employees who worked as one team.
"Thanks to the support by the UAE's wise leadership, Awqaf is attaining continuously outstanding achievements in serving the community. With team spirit, the performance indicator rises daily at Awqaf's several departments and branches across our beloved homeland. I would like, therefore, to thank the IT department team and all those who offer to this country and the society a distinguished achievement that is conducive to help the work environment flourish into the highest standards," Dr al Kaabi said.      
 













