addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has opened new classrooms in the Autism Centre of the Zayed Higher Organization for Humanitarian Care & Special Needs (ZHO). The move comes as part of the wise leadership's keen interest in supporting people with special needs and integrating them into the society, helping them to become active members in serving their homeland.
Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that furnishing the new classrooms with all means of education and rehabilitation for the autistic people came in line with the UAE leadership's attention paid to this category of patients as well as its devotion to provide them with all opportunities of education and learning.
"The waqf sector has a waqf disbursement channel for social welfare and community service whose proceeds are used to sponsor a number of essential charitable and social projects. Some of the projects include care for the elderly, care for people with special needs, support for children and youngsters, environment conservation, awareness of traffic safety, maintaining public facilities, combatting drugs, charitable media, relief efforts and animal welfare," Dr al Kaabi said, noting that the revenues of these channels are secured through the donations from donors.
"Earlier, the ZHO signed a co-operation agreement with Awqaf to enrich the humanitarian and charitable activities, promote joint co-operation and lay down plans that would help supporting people with special needs as well as training them to integrate in the community, hence enabling them to take an effective part in the prosperity of the nation. This can be achieved by providing them with special services, social welfare and facilities that meet their needs," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Welcoming this initiative, Mr Mohamed Mohamed Fadel al Hameli, Secretary General of the ZHO, said, "having a government entity sponsoring the costs of furnishing a number of classrooms in the ZHO-affiliated Abu Dhabi Centre for Autism reflects the unified approach, efforts and action plans amongst government entities in order to serve people with disabilities including autistic students."
Mr Al Hameli added he was looking forward to more joint co-operation between ZHO and Awqaf with the aim of supporting other segments of society and projects carried out by the ZHO.
"The ZHO seeks to attract national entities and companies to support its charity projects," he said, stressing that ZHO is keenly interested in promoting co-ordination amongst government institutions in order to build a societal strategic partnership and enhance communication between them.
Mr Al Hameli praised the great role played by Awqaf as part of its social responsibility and its leadership's dedication to positively interact with the campaigns launched by the ZHO for the benefit of the categories under its auspices.
 













