addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has completed the training course for an elite group of Imams and Khateebs from Sudan. The training is part of the co-operation agreement between Awqaf and Sudan's Ministry of Irshad and Awqaf (Guidance and Religious Endowments).
Awqaf held an honouring ceremony for the graduates which was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, HE the Deputy Ambassador of Sudan to the UAE and Awqaf's senior officials.
The Deputy Ambassador of Sudan delivered a speech in which he conveyed the Sudanese Ambassador's appreciation. In it, he praised the UAE leadership, government and people for the well-reception, hospitality and utmost attention received by this group of Imams. He also expressed his appreciation of Awqaf's distinctive scientific, practical and cultural programme that the trainees received.
"We are very keenly interested in extending bridges of co-operation between the Awqaf authorities in both brotherly countries. The fraternal relations between both leaderships and peoples are deep in history because we have many things in common that we are eager to develop to promote further co-operation and exchange of scientific, cultural and religious meetings," he said.
Dr Khojali Abdul Noor delivered a speech on behalf of the trainees in which he praised Awqaf's hospitality, stressing that the well-prepared training course was of great benefit to them. The trainees were briefed on the expertise, which Awqaf distinguishes it from its counterparts worldwide. He added that trainees had benefited from such a knowledge and expertise in correcting perceptions and illuminating their path in accordance with the leading approach of moderation and tolerance adhered to in the UAE.
He also commended on the lecturers' skills, profound knowledge and accuracy, saying: "as this training course comes to an end, we are going back to our country with all love and appreciation to the UAE leadership and people for the progress and prosperity we saw and experienced, something that should be a source of pride for all Arabs."
Later, Dr al Kaabi and the deputy ambassador handed the graduation certificates over to the trainees and their trainers including scholars, researchers and Muftis in an atmosphere of gratitude and satisfaction.
Dr al Kaabi delivered a brief speech addressing the Imams in which he said: "it was a pleasure to welcome you in the UAE, your second homeland, which was founded by the late leader Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul. May Allah bless our wise leadership who followed in his steps together with HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, for their great support to Awqaf's plans and projects."
"You are the vanguard of Imams, Khateebs and scholars that Sudan will be proud of. We have shared with you our academic and practical experiences that are guided by our wise leadership's vision which follows Islam's principles of moderation, tolerance and compassion with all people regardless of their belonging, nationality and culture," Dr al Kaabi said.
"We have given you the outcomes of the studies, approaches and skills that have been honed by Awqaf after getting familiar with other methodologies and practices from all over the Arab and Muslim world. These studies, approaches and skills will enable the Sudanese people to enjoy, as we do, the contemporary religious discourse, which is characterised by authenticity, convenience, knowledge and wisdom."
 













