addthis_pub="newawqaf";















"Fighting terrorism in the age of open cyberspace is an international responsibility because such a terrorism has an international origins, and the Arab and Islamic countries are the first to be affected by the threats it poses. Indeed, the conflict witnessed at this era is between the entire human civilisation and its enemies," said Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
"The East and West are together in one alliance against extremism and terrorism, be it of Islamic or non-Islamic sources," said Dr al Kaabi in an interview with the "Taware'e Wa Azamat" (Emergency & Crisis) magazine.
"The ambiguous emergence of the Islamic state 'Daesh', its quick spread and precise planning, all indicate that it is the work of skilled intelligence bodies aimed at instilling confusion in the Arab world and the whole region and to reshape it in accordance with the agendas of the super powers," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr. Kaabi underlined the need for concerted efforts of the political systems and their peoples in order not to allow weakness to slither into their countries. "To defeat the evil and destructive forces, we need to stop associating them with any civilisation, religion or race," he stressed.
He called for radical revision amongst the political, intellectual and religious components of the Arab or Islamic countries that are still suffering disintegration in order to achieve better harmony amongst these components.
"First, we need to fortify our national forts, mosques, the media, education and cultural institutions to face the extremist ideologies. Then we should promote a culture of self-criticism to motivate development and keep abreast with modern life. Moreover, we should monitor, analyse and refute any alien Fatwa or opinion by giving a scientific, knowledgeable Fatwas and adopting a moderate and tolerant discourse," Dr al Kaabi said.
 
Dr al Kaabi highlighted that the UAE wise leadership adopts the authentic Islamic approach that is based on moderation and tolerance.
 
"Whoever contradicts with this approach is academically rebutted and kept away from supervisory or preaching roles in mosques and other educational or media institutions. The selection of Imams, Khateebs and preachers is subject to strict standards, monitoring and follow-up," Dr al Kaabi explained.
 













