addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of collaboration between Awqaf and Masdar Institute, the two sides have discussed the smart mosques project during a periodic meeting held by Awqaf to discuss internal affairs and monthly developments. The meeting was headed by HE Dr Mohammed Mattar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman, and attended by directors of departments and branches as well as the Assistant Director of Masdar Institute and a number of experts.
During the meeting, held at Awqaf's branch in Al Ain, the Masdar institute delegation presented a study on the transformation into smart mosques, a project that Awqaf has been planning for over the past few month in order to keep pace with the UAE wise leadership's vision of excellence and innovation.
A 3D presentation was given. The delegation explained the projects goals and characteristics as well as its system based on cloud computing. The project is aimed to design a special platform for transforming the existing mosques into smart buildings featuring efficiency in energy consumption and providing the finest services to worshipers. Moreover, the system will be able to collect data on environment, services and equipment relating to the mosque as well as data on the rate of its occupation and energy consumption. The data can be analysed for instant solutions to problems, if any.
An important feature of the system is its ability to improve the operational efficiency of the air conditioning to eliminate waste of energy, while ensuring higher customer satisfaction. It is also intended to allow preventive maintenance by early detecting and reporting failure cases and control devices remotely. The system also features the ability to give statistics about the number of worshipers visiting each mosque each week, smart processing of pictures in order to extract data related to occupancy rate and type of maintenance in each mosque, in addition to smart archiving of pictures and videos.
Addressing the meeting, Dr al Kaabi, stressed that the UAE wise leadership had always guided us to offer innovative, advanced, modern and beneficial services to the Islamic World and the local community.
"Such creative achievements will cover even ADNOC outside mosques which Awqaf will support with well-qualified personnel and services. Awqaf will also start streaming Friday prayer at these mosques and link them to the unified Adhan as well as provide them with maintenance and furniture," Dr al Kaabi added.
The meeting also discussed introducing new departments at Awqaf in order to keep pace with the development processes at its branches. Such departments will include Friday Sermon, cleaning services, al Imam al Jamia and outside mosques. Awqaf also gave great attention to remote areas, authorising its branches to open affiliated offices there to closely follow up their development projects.
 













