addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He enlightened hearts with the light of faith and gave life to them with the remembrance of His name and reciting the Quran. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth and all the praises are due to Him. He is the Omnipotent.  I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best of those who praised Allah. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure grateful family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O servants of Allah, I urge you and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Sublime, in line with His orders: "that [is so]. And whoever honors the symbols of Allah - indeed, it is from the piety of hearts." (Al Hajj: 32). 
O Worshipers,
Please know that a sound heart carries special importance and is of great impact. It is the centre-piece organ, to which various limbs depend whether in good or ill state.  The Prophet pbuh said, "there is a piece of flesh in the body if it becomes good (reformed) the whole body becomes good but if it gets spoilt the whole body gets spoilt and that is the heart." Indeed, a person with a purified heart will definitely have good intentions, deeds, tongue and other senses alike.
From this perspective, Islam places great emphasis on hearts and calls for cleansing them from sins for it is the heart at which Allah, the Knowing of the unseen, will look on the Day of Judgment. On this account, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Verily Allah does not look to your faces and your wealth but He looks to your heart and to your deeds."
Furthermore, the heart is the abode of faith and piety. On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "the piety is here, (and while saying so) he pointed towards his chest three times." A peaceful and quiet heart is thus the one that is enlightened with faith and always sides by the truth, justice, righteousness and virtue.   
O Servants of Allah,
It is also good to know that a good heart is the path to success in this life and the next. Indeed, the heart is one's way to Paradise as evidenced here: "the Day when there will not benefit [anyone] wealth or children. But only one who comes to Allah with a sound heart." (Ash-Shuara: 88-89).
Verily, those who possess sound heart are the best people in this world. It was narrated that Abdullah Ibn Amr Ibn Alass, may Allah be pleased with them, said, "it was once said to the Messenger of Allah pbuh, 'which of the people is best?' He said, 'everyone who is pure of heart and sincere in speech.' They said, 'sincere in speech, we know what this is, but what is pure of heart?' He said, 'it is (the heart) that is pious and pure, with no sin, injustice, rancour or envy in it."
Thus, it is by cleansing the heart from envy, malice, dishonesty, arrogance, and other bad qualities that the heart becomes sound. On this account, one of the companions, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "there are two deeds of mine that I have the most reliance on. The first is that I never speak what is not necessary, and the second is that my heart is always clear towards all Muslims."
O Worshipers,
To have a sound heart, this requires taking actions such as reciting continuously the Quran and contemplating thoroughly its meaning. Indeed, in it there is healing, guidance and enlightenment to those of understanding. Allah, the Exalted is He, says, "O mankind, there has to come to you instruction from your Lord and healing for what is in the breasts and guidance and mercy for the believers." (Yunus: 57). The Holy Quran contains the noblest sermons and the most beneficial cure for hearts, as revealed in the following Aya: "then do they not reflect upon the Qur'an, or are there locks upon [their] hearts?" (Muhamad: 24). He also says, "the believers are only those who, when Allah is mentioned, their hearts become fearful." (Al Anfal: 2).
Indeed, the remembrance of Allah strengthens faith in the heart and offers it tranquillity and assurance. Allah says, "those who have believed and whose hearts are assured by the remembrance of Allah. Unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah hearts are assured." (Ar-Raad: 28). Moreover, remembrance of Allah gives life to hearts and purifies them from sins. The Prophet pbuh said, "the example of the one who celebrates the Praises of his Lord (Allah) in comparison to the one who does not celebrate the Praises of his Lord, is that of a living creature compared to a dead one."
Additionally, a sincere and submissive heart supplicating to Allah is one of the reasons for accepting prayers. In this regard, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "call upon Allah while being certain of being answered, and know that Allah does not respond to a supplication from the heart of one heedless and occupied by play."
By nature, the heart fluctuates and so to ensure its stays firm and righteous, one has to ask guidance from Allah. This was emphasised by the Prophet pbuh in this Hadith: "surely, the heart of the son of Adam turns over and over more than a pot of boiling water." For this reason, the Prophet pbuh would pray: "O Changer of the hearts, make my heart firm upon Your religion." So, Anas, may Allah be pleased with him, said to him, "O Messenger of Allah, we believe in you and what you have come with, but do you fear for us?" Thereupon, he said, "yes. Verily, the hearts are between the two fingers out of the fingers of Allah. He turns them to any (direction) He wishes."
Dear Muslims,
One other means of purifying hearts is the company of those who are good and pious. Good people choose the best of speech that their words would be conducive to offering the heart peace and, ultimately, fortifying it with firmer faith and purity. For this reason, Allah, the Almighty, ordered his Messenger pbuh to keep good company. He says, "and keep yourself patient [by being] with those who call upon their Lord in the morning and the evening, seeking His countenance. And let not your eyes pass beyond them, desiring adornments of the worldly life, and do not obey one whose heart We have made heedless of Our remembrance and who follows his desire and whose affair is ever [in] neglect." (Al Kahf: 28). Indeed, pious people would always guide you to obey Allah and adopt the best of conduct and kindness.
Another approach that is equally beneficial in cleansing one's heart is to love one another and keep others safe from backbiting and evil deeds. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "the faith of a servant is not established until his heart is put right, and the heart is not put right until the tongue is put right."
With this in mind, we beseech Allah to bless us with a healthy heart and abundant provisions, O the Doer of Good, the All-Merciful.
O Allah, may You guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you" (An-Nisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O worshipers,
Please be aware that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most High, and to keep our hearts sound because a pure heart will, surely, guide us to the righteous path. Undoubtedly a person with a good heart will enjoy comfort and tranquillity in this world. He wishes for others whatever he likes for himself and invokes blessings on them. Allah, the Most High, says, "and [there is a share for] those who came after them, saying, "Our Lord, forgive us and our brothers who preceded us in faith and put not in our hearts [any] resentment toward those who have believed. Our Lord, indeed You are Kind and Merciful." (Al Hashr: 10).
Verily, those with pure heart will receive multiple rewards. A pious man once said in description of the conditions of the ancestors, "they used to do little work, yet get abundant rewards." And when he was asked about the reason, he said, "because they possessed pure hearts." Considering this, every one of us should think and make a judgment on the status of their hearts and seek Allah's help in making them devoted to His obedience. We should supplicate to Allah to make us amongst those whose deeds and dealings with others are subject to a good heart, one that is clear of envy and malice.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all his companions.
O Lord, we implore to You to grant us sound and pious hearts and help us to say all that is good and be honest at work.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic text.
 













