addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He sent down the Scriptures and the messages and made His religion above all suspicions. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure grateful family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with His orders: "and fear Allah. And Allah teaches you. And Allah is Knowing of all things." (Al Baqara: 282). 
Dear Muslims, 
Please know that amongst Allah's favours upon mankind is that He with His Wisdom has perfected His religion and revealed it to us in His book in the form of flawless verses detailing His ordinances. The Exalted is He says, "Alif, Lam, Ra. [This is] a Book whose verses are perfected and then presented in detail from [one who is] Wise and Acquainted." (Hood: 1). That is: the expressions in the Quran are free of any ambiguity and their meanings are explained clearly leaving no room for suspicion. Doubts and suspicions are such misconceptions that provoke uncertainty and misguiding turmoil. The Almighty entrusted His Messenger Muhammad pbuh with a mission to explain the meanings of the Quran to the believers as evidenced in this Aya, "and We revealed to you the message that you may make clear to the people what was sent down to them." (Al Nahl: 44).
Fulfilling Allah's trust, the Prophet pbuh enlightened people about their Creator and refuted the misleading conceptions which the ignorant and ill-minded people used to circulate. In this regard, it is important to mention that one of the most dangerous and devastating turmoil in our days lies in the misconceptions that are being disseminated by the extremist groups. Their perceptions see the wrong as right and their crimes as Jihad, and thus they consider those who do not follow their ways as disbelievers. They think that with their corruptions they are reforming the world. Indeed, Allah, the Almighty, confirmed that those people are corruptors who mislead others. He says, "and indeed do many lead [others] astray through their [own] inclinations without knowledge. Indeed, your Lord - He is most knowing of the transgressors." (Al Anaam: 119). This means they will make their followers go astray unknowingly with no sound evidence except for satisfying their worldly temptations and evil desires. By so doing, they would disobey Allah's decrees and follow Satan.
Furthermore, they make use of the Quran and Hadiths in order to achieve their evil objectives. Those are the ones against whom the Quran and Sunna warned believers not to listen to because of their dangerous ill-intentions and influence. Ayesha, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "the Messenger of Allah pbuh recited the following Aya: 'it is He who has sent down to you, [O Muhammad], the Book; in it are verses [that are] precise - they are the foundation of the Book - and others unspecific. As for those in whose hearts is deviation [from truth], they will follow that of it which is unspecific, seeking discord and seeking an interpretation [suitable to them]. And no one knows its [true] interpretation except Allah. But those firm in knowledge say, 'We believe in it. All [of it] is from our Lord.' And no one will be reminded except those of understanding.' (Al Imran: 7). Then he pbuh said, "if you see those who follow thereof that is not entirely clear, then they are those whom Allah has named [as having deviation (from the Truth)] 'So beware of them."   
Similarly, the righteous companions, may Allah be pleased with them, warned against those who try to cause uncertainty and prevented them from doing so. A good example on this was that of a man called Sabeegh who was notorious for promoting fallacies amongst people seeking to enflame temptation and strife. Thereupon, Umar ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, called for Sabeegh and when he came he beat him. Umar then sent a letter to Abu Mousa Al Ashaari, may Allah be pleased with him, to prevent Muslims from keeping Sabeegh's company until he has mended his ways and stopped spreading his wrong ideas.
O Servants of Allah,
Muslim scholars warned against suspicious ideas and urged the believers to avoid getting involved in them. There are, actually, many aspects of such misconceptions. For instance, there are those which are aimed to compromise the stability of countries and the safety of their peoples. Others are intended to destroy the achievements of nations and civilisations. There are also those which are meant to confuse the believers and distort what is right and lawful. That is why our Master Muhammad pbuh emphasised the need to avoid such deviated concepts. He said, "so whoever saves himself from these suspicious things saves his religion and his honour. And whoever indulges in these suspicious things falls into that which is unlawful." That is: whoever avoids suspicious things keeps himself and his religion blameless. However, whoever gets involved in suspicious matters will surely put himself in danger and fall into delusion.
O Believers,
One way to avert misconceptions and prove their unlawfulness is by seeking the advice of the people of knowledge, those who have sound knowledge, mature way of thinking and are moderate in their judgements. This was what the Prophet pbuh ordered his companions to do when they differed in regards to the interpretation of an Aya and their voices became loud while arguing. Thereupon, he pbuh went out with his face red out of anger and said to them, "indeed, the Quran verses do not contradict each other. They were rather sent to support each other. Thus, that which you understand follow their teachings, and that which you do not understand refer to the one with knowledge amongst you."
Verily, knowledge is the solid rock at which the successive waves of misleading perceptions come to break and fade away. Allah, the Most High says, "and if it was not for the favour of Allah upon you, [O Muhammad], and His mercy, a group of them would have determined to mislead you. But they do not mislead except themselves, and they will not harm you at all. And Allah has revealed to you the Book and wisdom and has taught you that which you did not know. And ever has the favour of Allah upon you been great." (Al Nisaa: 113). That is: how will they ever be able to harm you with their misconceptions when Allah, the Almighty, has taught you that which you did not know?  
Dear Muslims,
Knowledge and awareness are means for protecting minds. And here lies the role of parents in educating their children in order to protect them against suspicious ideas. With knowledge we can guard our children from misleading conceptions, correct their behaviour and lead them on the righteous path. Undoubtedly, parents are the ones who care most about their children and pass them on the best of what they know. And they will be responsible for this before Allah on the Day of Judgment. The Prophet pbuh said, "a man is a guardian of his family and is responsible for his charges."
One successful way of raising children is to engage them in dialogue, for it helps children develop and strengthen their personal skills as well as encourage them to reveal their feelings and thoughts. Through conversation, children's faith will also get reinforced, hence allowing them to protect themselves against deviated ideologies and misleading concepts.
With this in mind, let us pray to Allah to help us avoid slipping into faults, provide us with beneficial knowledge and guide us to do all that is good.
O Allah, may You guide us all to obey You and obey Your truthful and honest Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you" (An-Nisaa: 59). 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O worshipers,
Please be aware that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Sublime, and know that instilling the meanings of belonging to the homeland in the mind of our children is a duty that every parent should fulfil. To this end, we should teach them that loving one's nation is faith and that every individual is part and parcel of their homeland. This way, they will cherish their nation's prosperity and advance with its progress. We should also teach our children that being devoted to serving one's country brings happiness in this life and the next. This is, indeed, amongst the most sublime acts of goodness that bring welfare to the whole society. Allah, the Almighty, says, "so whoever does an atom's weight of good will see it." (Al Zalzala: 7).
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh.
O Lord, we beseech you to teach us that which is beneficial to us, and make us benefit from what You taught us. May Allah protect us from the evil of temptations and suspicious perceptions, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque. O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
Translation:
Edited and revised by Mostapha El Mouloudi
Note: The English translation of the Quran and Hadith is an interpretation of their meanings and does not have the status of their original Arabic text.
 
 













