addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Mubarak and Matar bin Hadhir al Muhairi mosque was inaugurated today in Al Batten area in Abu Dhabi. The mosque was refurbished at the expense of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
The inauguration was attended by  HE Hamad Al Hurr al Suwaidi and HE Jabr Mohammed Ghanem al Suwaidi, Director General of the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court, HE Younis Haji al Khouri, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Finance, HE Dr Mohammed Matar Salim al Kaabi, Chairman of Awaqf, Dr Farouq Hamada, adviser in the court of HH the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, and HE Mohammed Obeid Al Mazroui, Executive Director of Islamic Affairs at Awqaf, as well as a number of officials and residents of al Bateen.
The mosque accommodates up to 400 worshipers and its design was inspired by the architecture of Qasr al Hosn.
The worshipers performed Ishaa prayer in the mosque and implored to Allah, the Almighty, to grant the best rewards to those who built and renovated it.
HE Jabr al Suwaidi expressed his thanks and appreciation to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan for his follow-up and directives to rebuild the mosque to accommodate a larger number of worshipers. He also hailed the keen interest of the UAE wise leadership in building and maintaining mosques in line with the culture of goodness promoted in the UAE.
For his part, Dr Farouk Hamada delivered a speech in which he thanked the UAE's wise leadership for the care it gives to mosques construction in view of its key role in promoting virtuous deeds and knowledge in the society.
Dr Hamada underscored that these values were laid down by the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, and thereafter followed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, following the book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger.
He also valued the role of the philanthropists in the country who donate for the construction of mosques. This makes us feel safe and secure and creates compassion, harmony and love amongst all members of society, he said.
 













