addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of the efforts to promote the values ​​of tolerance and exploring the environments that are conducive to instilling them in government entities, HE Sheikha Lubna bint Khalid Al Qasimi, the UAE Minister of State for Tolerance, visited Awqaf.
The visit came to recognise Awqaf as a key stakeholder in the UAE that exercises tolerance in theory, vision, mission and practice through all of its channels, conferences, and the human and social studies it produces and publishes.
HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, welcomed HE the Minister and briefed her on Awqaf's approach in promoting the principles of tolerance in the UAE society and respecting the cultural and religious diversity of all those who enter the UAE including workers of all categories, tourists, businessmen, as well as economic, educational and humanitarian organizations.
"All of these components would enrich the progress of our country and are constituent of our community that is being given much care by our wise leadership. Based on Islam's principles, those components are being provided with the ideal environment for peaceful coexistence. Indeed, human civilisations were built based on such cultural exchange and societies can only prosper should they make the good use of every human innovation and aspiration," Dr al Kaabi said.
 "The UAE is proud to set an example in religious tolerance and human civilised coexistence. This was testified by many prominent international figures and forums. Besides that, the approach of moderation followed in the country led to achieving the highest ranks on happiness indicators in terms of intellectual practice s well as everyday life," Dr al Kaabi added.
HE the Minister valued the ideas proposed by Dr al Kaabi being in line with the the vision that the UAE's wise leadership seeks to promote and nurture in all aspects of the daily life of the UAE society.
"The moderation and tolerance approach adopted in the UAE is the main gateway towards building nations and achieving prosperity as well as combating extremism that is threatening the world today. As much as this approach is enabled in the society, justice, moderation, and tolerance will prevail, and eventually extremism and terrorism will be defeated," said HE Sheikha Lubna.
Furthermore, HE the Minster of Tolerance expressed her wish to build strong cooperation relationship with Awqaf in order to help achieve its vision and mission in the country, society and the whole world as a whole.
 













