addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the International Day of Happiness, observed on 20th March every year, Awqaf has stressed that the happiness of citizens and residents in the UAE society is part of the entity's happiness. To this end, Awqaf launched several initiatives and events in celebration of the UAE's top ranking in the Arab and Islamic region as happiest place to live in, according to the World Happiness Report 2016. The UAE was also ahead of such prominent countries as France and Japan.
As part of the events, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, accompanied with a host of senior officials, toured the Quran memorisation centres where they shared the students from all age groups their delight with such an elite Quranic environment that the UAE wise leadership provided to them in order to ensure happiness of the youngsters and their parents.
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi said: "the smile of a child is a true expression of his happiness, and children's happiness resembles the happiness of the whole society. For this reason, Awqaf established these model memorisation centres to incubate our beloved youngsters and develop their sense of the purity of nature and the beauty of the Islamic guidance while they recite the Quran. While learning Quran, they will benefit from the role it plays in refining eloquence and rhetoric, and when they recite it beautifully at home, they will touch their parents' heart with happiness, seeing their children's soul and mind being nurtured with Islam's values of tolerance, cooperation and philanthropy."
"Undoubtedly, when such principles are instilled in the mind of the generations, they will definitely live a good life, as evidenced in this Aya: 'whoever does righteousness, whether male or female, while he is a believer - We will surely cause him to live a good life, and We will surely give them their reward [in the Hereafter] according to the best of what they used to do.' (Al Nahl: 97)," Dr al Kaabi added.
"This is what the founding father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan aimed to achieve by establishing the Quran memorisation centres across our beloved country. Such a wise approach is still being followed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Deputy Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
Dr al Kaabi further met the mothers of the youngsters as well as female students. He expressed his thanks for their diligence in learning the Quran and hailed the unremitting efforts by the UAE's wise leadership to ensure their happiness while studying in these centres and make them feel at home.
 
 













