addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, and Ahmed Shabib al Dhaheri, Director General of the Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation, discussed means of cooperation during the upcoming Hajj season and how to facilitate the travel of the 600 citizen pilgrims who will be dispatched by the foundation.
The meeting was held at the Zayed Foundation and attended by Awqaf's senior officials. It addressed the facilities for pilgrims in this year's season, and the services provided by the Hajj operators to citizens and residents, including registration, transport and accommodation in Mecca and the holy sites. The two sides agreed to form a team to coordinate efforts.
Dr al Kaabi stressed that the UAE pilgrims receive great attention and follow-up from the UAE wise leadership, and that the Hujjaj Affairs Office shall continue its excellence in the organizational, administrative and medical services it provides.
"To achieve excellence in this year's Hajj season, Awqaf wants to see more commitments to the instructions by all the concerned parties and much better quality services to be delivered," Dr al Kaabi added. He pointed out that the UAE's quota of pilgrims for this year has not been changed so far.
Dr al Kaabi hailed the efforts of the Zayed bin Sultan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation, in cooperating with the Hujjaj Affairs Office, the technology it uses in selecting the pilgrims, and the success of its project to provide services to other entities and organizations.
For his part, al Dhaheri stressed that the foundation is keenly interested to develop its work by keeping abreast of the latest instructions and decisions regulating the Hajj procedures in Saudi Arabia.
 "The meeting discussed the new regulations related to this year's Hajj season and pilgrims' permits," al Dhaheri said pointing out that the foundation received a large number of applications from people who wish to benefit from the Zayed Hajj programme.   The applications are being sorted out electronically for the selection of the 600 citizen pilgrims who meet the criteria, he added.
Al Dhaheri said that an Emirati elderly lady at the age of 96 years has applied to perform Hajj, noting that she enjoys good health and has the ability to perform the Hajj rituals.
 













