addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf announced April, 10 as the date for the preliminaries of the 7th edition of its Quran memorisation contests. Qualifiers will continue until Thursday, April 21, and will see the participation of a large number of candidates from Awqaf's Quran memorisation centres and around 10 other entities in the UAE, besides the participation of ccorrectional facilities across the country.
Speaking on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that the organisation of this competition in its seventh edition reflects the UAE wise leadership's great care devoted for the holy Quran and its memorisers, as well as the significant support it gives to the Quranic centres. This is clearly seen in their continuous interest in establishing the model memorisation centres and upgrading them to keep pace with other educational institutions in the country. In this endeavour, they follow the approach of the founding father the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who laid down its early foundations, he added.
Dr al Kaabi explained that the contest would motivate male and female UAE citizens and residents in the country to compete in memorising, and reciting the holy Quran. It also raises the level of performance and memorisation in the Quran memorisation centres in the country by nominating the outstanding students. He hailed the public's great interest in the contest, contributing to its development and the increase of its categories. This allowed memorisers from all walks of life to participate in the competition, Dr al Kaabi noted.
In the preliminaries, more than 700 candidates, males and females, entered the competition. Those had been nominated from amongst (108) Quranic centres affiliated to Awqaf, 7 non-Awqaf n centres and 3 institutions for the people with special needs. There is a remarkable participation from correctional institutions across the UAE. 
Contestants will compete in seven categories: full length Quran, 20 parts, 10 parts, five parts, three parts, Amma part (part 30 of the Quran) for youngsters, as well as Quran reciting and Tajweed for adults aged over 50 years.
 













