addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed that credibility is the key factor behind the popularity enjoyed by Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre. He attributed this to the moderate approach adopted by such elite scholars who issue Fatwas away from the reprehensible extremism.
In a statement to Al-Ittihad Newspaper, Dr al Kaabi said that the centre issued around 385,782 Fatwas as of the end of 2015. The Fatwas answered questions about worships, business transactions and other daily life matters. Of the total number of queries attended to, around 122,915 were related to jurisprudence of worship.
"Work guidelines to ensure serving the public in religious matters and in the best interest of the UAE, its citizens and residents include abiding by Awqaf's instructions and using the Fatwa electronic platform. Other rules include keeping records of all questions and answers, helping achieve Awqaf's vision and mission, following the Maliki Madhab which is the official school of Islamic law in the UAE in all matters of worship and considering the said school a priority in other issues depending on each case at hand," said Dr al Kaabi.
Awqaf's scholars answer religious queries through phone, text messages and online.
Awqaf started delivering Fatwa services via toll-free number (8002422) in mid-2007. In the beginning, it received an average of 200 to 250 calls a day. The figure then grew and Awqaf started offering a full range of services by establishing the Official Fatwa Centre which was first launched in May 2008 and was officially inaugurated on August 28, 2008.
Dr al-Kaabi concluded by saying: "one of Awqaf's strategic objectives is to strengthen the reference authority of Fatwa in the UAE. To achieve this goal, the Official Fatwa Centre was established to facilitate communication between the public and Awqaf. The centre gained the trust of the public, thanks to its reliable Muftis and scholars who were chosen from amongst the people of moderation and with high knowledge and academic credentials. The centre now has become a point of interest and a reference to people regarding many of their issues."
 













