addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In line with strategic plan, vision and mission, Awqaf launched on Sunday, April 4 a new educational initiative in the Quran memorisation centres under the motto: "Ya Jibal Oubi" (O mountains, praise Allah). The new initiative is aimed at easing learning Quran for students at the Quranic centres by helping them learn the correct way of reading and the rules of recitation and Tajweed.  
Speaking about the initiative, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that the idea is to read Quran collectively as one of the methods of instruction and memorisation. This entails the tutor to give some time at the beginning of each lesson to listen to the students' recitation of that day's assignment. The tutor needs to correct learners' mistakes promptly and concurrently until the whole Quran is completed in each centre over a one-month period of time, he explained.
"The implementation of this initiative in the Quranic centres will be done over several steps. First, the thirty parts of the Quran would be covered over the monthly study days so as to ensure the completion of the whole Quran by end of the month. Then the daily recitation assignments will be distributed to each Quranic session so that each group will have a different assignment. After that, the daily Quran portion will be recited collectively at the beginning of each lesson, with tutors correcting recitation until the completion of the whole Quran by the end of the month," Dr al Kaabi further elaborated.
Dr Kaabi pointed out that the new initiative is aimed at enhancing the students' ability of reciting the Quran by correcting their recitation while memorising at the same time. This will be a movement away from traditional methods of Quran memorisation. As many as 42000 male and female students will benefit from this initiative, he added.
Dr Kaabi hailed the substantial support to Awqaf from HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates, noting that it has helped the entity's efforts to improve its services offered to the public.
Dr al Kaabi further said that the Quran memorisation centres witnessed a great development in terms of its curriculum, tutors and infrastructure thanks to the great support by the UAE prudent leaders, following the approach of the founding father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who laid the foundations of these centres. As a result, these centres became modern educational institutions receiving growing interest from citizens and residents who encouraged their sons and daughters to learn the book of Allah, he underscored.
Dr al Kaabi highlighted Awqaf's continuous effort to upgrade the Quran memorisation centres so as to keep in pace with the great development witnessed by educational institutions in the country. This includes the construction of model centres fitted with the latest teaching methods, preparation of unified curriculum, development of new modes of delivery as well as the recruitment of qualified teachers, he concluded.
 













