addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In line with the directives of the UAE wise leadership to transform into smart government and thanks to its continuous support, Awqaf has achieved excellence in employing advanced and smart technologies in delivering its services. This resulted in the excellence achieved by its website, attracting over 2.6 million visitors from January to December 2014.
According to statistics issued by Awqaf's IT department, the number of visits to the website increased by 700000 visits, an estimated increase of 37 per cent compared to 2013. 
In view of the website's remarkable development during 2014, it is expected to attract over 3 million visitors in 2015. Fatwas topped the list of preferred services, recording more than 300000 visits, followed by Friday sermons and prayer timings. Visitors of the website come from around the world with the Friday sermons attracting visitors from more than 113 countries, including Europe, USA and Asia.
The statistics also showed that visits to the website during the Hajj season saw an increase of 100 per cent compared to the same period in 2013. Meanwhile, during Ramadan 2014 the website recorded an increase of 70 per cent compared to 2013.
Commenting on the achievement, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said, "this significant rise is due to many reasons, including the support by the UAE prudent leadership to the e-transformation process and the regular update of the website's content in both Arabic and English as well as the popularity of the website amongst the community members in light of Awqaf's enhanced role in the society and participation in the different social activities."
"The website is expected to attract more visitors in the future thanks to the entity's efforts in keeping pace with the eGovernment and mGovernment drives and its keen interest to offer the best eServices to all members of the society," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi indicated that the launch of the new version of the website had also helped in attracting more visitors and hits. The new website offers easy browsing and quick access to the required information or service. In addition to that, it features easier interaction with the public in order to meet their requirements, Dr al Kaabi added, noting that Awqaf was always interested in enhancing its interactive services in response to customers' feedback, which it receives through its various channels of communication.
The new version of Awqaf's website comes with new appearance and colours that lend an aesthetic value for all pages. The menus have also been ordered in a way to facilitate for users access to their various sections. An optimisation of its pages has also been executed.
Amongst the new interactive services on the website are the holy Quran and the Live Chat, bringing Awqaf's communication channels with the public to 14, including its monthly newsletter. In a later stage, Awqaf is planning to increase those channels, aiming at creating enhanced communication with the community.
Worth mentioning though, Awqaf won the Pan-Arab Excellence Awards Academy (PAWA) Gold Shield and Certificate for technical innovation in the category of government authorities and official entities' websites for 2014. In 2013 it also won the Golden Award for the best Arabic websites and in 2012 obtained the Golden and Strategic E-Government Web Awards as well as the Technical Innovation Award at the level of UAE in the same category. The prizes were offered by PAWA. 
Awqaf's website scored 97 and 100 per cent in 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively in government entities website quality evaluation overseen by the UAE electronic government.  
 













