addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Ruler of the Emirate of Ajman and Member of the UAE Supreme Council, inaugurated the Obeid Al Helu Quran memorisation centre in the Muzairei area.
Sheikh Humaid toured the centre where officials briefed him on its goals and services. He also attended some classes and learned about the modern teaching methods at the new centre for memorising Quran and Hadith.
In his remarks during the tour, HH Sheikh Humaid hailed the utmost care given to mosques and Quran memorisation centres by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice president and Prime Minister of the UAE and ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Supreme Deputy Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
HH Sheikh Humaid expressed his appreciation of the interest shown by Emiratis in building mosques and Waqf Quran memorisation centres. He also praised Awqaf's efforts in managing mosques and Quran memorisation centres and sessions at mosques.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, expressed his gratitude to HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi for his generous support to the houses of Allah and the Quran memorisation centres.
Dr Al Kaabi underlined the UAE wise leadership's interest in teaching the Holy Quran and instilling its values ​​and instructions in the hearts of the youth, citing the role played by the Holy Quran in bringing up generations that adhere to its instructions and good manners for the benefit of all members of the society.
Dr Al Kaabi also appreciated the great support to Awqaf and its Quran memorisation centres by the UAE leaders who followed in the footsteps of the founding leader Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, who laid the foundations for the Holy Quran memorisation centres in the UAE.
"Awqaf is proceeding in accordance with its cabinet-approved strategic plans to establish more centres, supervise them and increase the number of memorisation sessions. It is also interested in developing the skills of administrative and teaching staff and organising annual Quran competitions," Dr al Kaabi said.
"As part of Awqaf's efforts to attract Emirati students to learn Quran and Tajweed, it established nine model memorisation centres across the UAE," Dr al Kaabi revealed, noting that the Obeid Al Helu centre, which is destined to serve the residents of Muzairei and its surrounding areas, consists of eight classrooms accommodating 200 students and a theatre of 200 seats.
"The study in the new centre will be on two morning and afternoon shifts. The centre is manned with highly qualified tutors and is fitted with all necessary cleaning and security equipments. Transportation will be ensured for all students," Dr al Kaabi said.
The opening ceremony was attended by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, Abdullah Ameen al Sharfa, Advisor to the Ruler of Ajman, Tariq bin Ghalaita, office director of Ajman Ruler, Obeid Hamad Al Zaabi, director of Awqaf's branch in Ajman, a number of government officials and a host of dignitaries and senior officials.  
 













