addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid Bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme Council and the Ruler of Ajman, was briefed on the programmes, objectives, mission, activities and campaign of the Holy Quran memorisation sessions, which had been launched for males and females with the aim of achieving the strategic objectives of the Quranic centres.
HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi received at his office in the Emiri Court female supervisors and a number of male and female students from Ajman Centre for Holy Quran Memorisation, which is affiliated to Awqaf.
During the reception, HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi learned about the educational campaign launched in the various Holy Quran memorisation centres across Ajman, including Al Utrojja, Al Ittihad, Al Arqam, Ajman and Obeid Al Helou.
"There are 56 Holy Quran memorisation sessions for males and females that are held in various mosques for free. Transportation is ensured to all learners from all age categories and nationalities," the supervisors explained.
Later, a female Quran student recited Surat Al Alaq before HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi and the other attendees.
HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi praised the efforts by those in charge of the Ajman centre as well as the support received by the wise leadership of the UAE and the utmost care given by Awqaf for the Holy Quran memorisation centres.
He underlined the need to teach the Prophetic Hadiths, the Sunna of the Prophet and the biographies of the Companions and other scholars in addition to memorising the Holy Quran.
Meanwhile, the supervisors of the centre thanked and expressed their appreciation and gratitude to HH Sheikh Humaid Al Nuaimi for meeting them and for his judicious directives to undertake their duties towards the UAE people.
They also thanked Awqaf for its care and support, and expressed their appreciation for Awqaf office in Ajman in the person of its director Mr Obeid Saeed al Zaabi for streamlining the work at the centres.
The meeting was attended by HE Dr Sheikh Majid Bin Saeed Al Nuaimi, Chairman of Ajman Ruler's Court, HE Salem Bin Ahmed Al Nuaimi, Adviser to the Ruler of Ajman for Charity Affairs, HE Abdullah Amin Shurafa, Adviser at Ruler's Court, HE Hamad Rashid Al Nuaimi, Director of the Emiri Court, HE Yousef Mohammed Al Nuaimi, Director General of Protocol and Hospitality, and a number of senior officials.
 













