addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, headed the UAE's official delegation to the third GCC conference of Ministers of Islamic Affairs and Awqaf held in Riyadh from 17-18 April 2016. The aim was to discuss the GCC's strategy in refining the true image of Islam in the wake of the blistering waves of bigotry, extremism and hatred that are sweeping the Islamic and Arab worlds.
It is widely known that UAE has adopted for many years a pioneering approach intended to establish an Islamic discourse based on principles of moderation, and impart long-lasting valid values in the contemporary open world.
Addressing the conference, Dr al Kaabi explained the UAE's advanced example in countering the current devastating wave aimed at distorting the image of Islam, highlighting on the occasion the mechanisms that are most likely to protect the community through a correct Islamic discourse.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi extended greetings on behalf of the UAE's wise leadership represented by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi also expressed thanks to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under leadership of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, for its kind invitation to Awqaf to participate in the meeting held under the chairmanship of HE Sheikh Saleh bin Abdulaziz Al Ash-Sheikh, Saudi Minister of Islamic Affairs, Endowments, Dawah and Guidance. He expressed appreciation, as well, to HE Sheikh Saleh for the hospitality and good organisation of the event.
"Your Highnesses and Excellences, this meeting comes as the region, in particular, and the world, in general, are facing great challenges, urging us to engage in more concerted efforts, coordinated attitudes and united GCC actions," Dr al Kaabi said. 
Dr al Kaabi highlighted a number of such challenges facing the region, namely the flaming sectarian strife in the Arab region which led to a recede in the culture of tolerance amongst the followers of religions and religious sects as a result of the sectarian discrimination practiced by the terrorist groups.
Another challenge that Dr al Kaabi underscored was the growing danger of the extremist Islamic groups. Those carry the flag of protecting the Sunna, establishing the sought-out Islamic state and reviving the lost Islamic Caliphate. As a result of their heinous crimes, they distorted the Islamic culture that is based on the principles of moderation, Dr al Kaabi explained.
The third challenge that Dr al Kaabi underlined was the existence of extremist groups which are using the cover of Jihad and support of the oppressed to lure the youths and employ them to serve their political and religious agendas.
The fourth challenge he highlighted was the practices of such groups which pretended to belong to Islam in order to spread deviated ideologies which are counterproductive to their homeland and its infrastructure.
As a result of this, voices that distort the true image of Islam and its values abound worldwide associating Islam with terrorism and accusing it of instigating the destruction of human civilisation, Dr al Kaabi said.
"From this perspective, our meeting today is very important. It is expected to come out with a GCC joint strategy aimed at further highlighting the civilised and bright image of Islam, combating the currents of bigotry and sectarianism and organising religious awareness programmes to counter the extremist and terrorist ideologies. This in turn will provide key support to the political and military action of the Islamic coalition, led by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to fight terrorist and extremist movements that are causing corruption on earth," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed that the UAE since its establishment by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, has set an example in highlighting the authentic values of Islam and taken the responsibility of disseminating its values of peace, cohesion and compassion.
"Today, under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, the UAE is cementing the moderate Islamic discourse in the form of initiatives, strategies, laws and resolutions that are aimed to protect the society from the dangerous consequences of extremism and sectarian strife. Thus, such laws criminalise any act that insults the religion and holy places," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
During the discussions held throughout the conference, Dr al Kaabi presented several valuable initiatives, measures and practices undertaken by Awqaf in matters related to Islamic affairs and Waqf development in accordance to the modern economic standards. Such topics attracted the interest of the senior officials concerned with religious and development affairs. They, in turn, hailed the wise vision of the UAE leadership in promoting such a strategy amongst the members of the society, who are living in a unique environment of happiness and tolerance.
 













