addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf's chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, delivered at al-Yahar Majlis in Al Ain a lecture in which he shed light on the Awqaf's experience in developing the religious discourse.
At the outset of his lecture, Dr al Kaabi hailed the UAE's leadership keen interest in highlighting the true image of Islam amidst the blistering waves of challenges that are sweeping the East and the West, yet the UAE and its people are enjoying highest levels of happiness, stability, welfare and prosperity. He prayed to Allah, the Almighty, to continue bestowing the best of health, success and excellence upon HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates.
Then, Dr al Kaabi talked about the key development areas in the Islamic affairs and Waqf, in the UAE, particularly the religious discourse, which, he said, had become a pioneering example for Arab and Islamic countries as well as the entire world. This reflects the principles of moderation, tolerance, co-existence and respect of others' religious values and beliefs that are deeply rooted in the UAE society, he added.
Dr al Kaabi further presented Awqaf's strategic goals, including the establishment of the unified Fatwa reference, highlighting the civilised image of mosques, promoting the culture of Waqf and upgrading the Hajj and Umrah services.
Furthermore, Dr al Kaabi underscored the administrative measures taken to develop the religious discourse like preventing extremists to promote their radical ideas and putting into effect the Cabinet decision no 39 of 2012 on safeguarding the sanctity of mosques and prohibiting their use for meetings, delivering lectures and education without official approvals. He also called for putting into administration the legal monitoring capacity of mosque inspectors to report violations. Other measures highlighted by Dr al Kaabi included continuous assessment of Awqaf's Imams, Khateebs, preachers and Quran tutors, the aim being to exclude those of extremist views and warn against provoking sectarian strife and discrimination.
"Some of the effective methods undertaken were training courses and workshops to improve the mosque personnel's performance, setting the annual preaching plan, developing the Quranic centres focusing on their administration, curriculums and tutors, in addition to revising and checking the publications, the Islamic studies curriculum and all printed materials that enter the country. Moreover, the distribution of pamphlets by worshipers was prohibited as publications approved by Awqaf can only be allowed for display in mosques," Dr al Kaabi elaborated.
As part of its endeavour to enhance the religious discourse, Awqaf worked on providing media content and specialised speakers for various media outlets, such as Emarat TV's "This is our religion" programme which addresses the latest developments in this connection. Awqaf also oversees the content of the Abu Dhabi Quran Radio and guides its strategy towards consolidating the national identity and promoting the principles of moderation, Dr al Kaabi added, noting that Awqaf also supported the live streaming programmes with elite scholars.
Additionally, Dr al Kaabi underlined that, since the era of the Founding father late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, Awqaf had regularly published Manar Al-Islam monthly magazine with the aim of spreading the culture of moderation and mercy, highlighting the civilised image of Islam and countering the extremist and terrorist ideologies.
"Awqaf's role is boosted by its online media team who produces content that best serves it purpose and post it via the social media websites," Dr al Kaabi underlined. 
As for the Official Fatwa Centre, Dr al Kaabi said, "the credibility of Awqaf's Fatwa Centre exceeded the borders of the UAE to reach many of the Arab and Islamic countries. It has issued more than two and a half million sound Fatwas in Arabic, English and Urdu." 
At the end of the lecture, the audience expressed their admiration for Awqaf's achievements and excellence under the umbrella of the UAE wise leadership.
Dr al Kaabi concluded by saying, "it gives me honour to shed light on those key points that have attracted your attention with the aim of exchanging views and concerting our efforts to achieve advancement, excellence and innovation."
 













