addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of its Emiratisation plan in religious posts, Awqaf interviewed more than 50 Emirati citizens who had applied to work as Imams or Khateebs across the UAE. The interviewees passed the sample test, and their appointment procedures were under process.
HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman , said Awqaf was progressing with its Emiratisation plan of positions like Imams and Khateebs in line with the directives of the UAE's wise leadership and in implementation of its cabinet-approved strategic plan.
He noted that Awqaf enjoyed considerable support from HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and keen interest from HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Supreme Council Members, the Rulers of the Emirates in order to support its mission.
"Awqaf ongoing Emiratisation drive included providing incentives with the aim of attracting Emirati citizens to work in these professions. Emirati nationals can also work under a reward scheme basis. Graduates of the University of Mohammed V-Agdal-Abu Dhabi in Islamic studies can join Awqaf as preachers, researchers and Muftis."  Dr al Kaabi added that Awqaf would launch a series of training workshops to help developing the skills of the newly appointed staff in order to qualify them for existing vacancies and promoting the role of Khateebs in the society.
Dr al Kaabi explained that Awqaf paid monthly bonus to the applicants for this job, each as per his experience and academic degree or certificate as follows: PhD holders (AED 9,000), master's degree holders (AED 8,000), university degree holders (AED 7,000), and high school certificate holders (AED 6,000.  He further noted that Awqaf's board of directors approved a bonus of AED 500 to an Emirati Khateeb for each Friday sermon, stressing that Awqaf would always welcome Emirati nationals who believe they are qualified to work as imams or Khateebs in the UAE mosques.
 













