addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Under the patronage of Her Highness Sheikha Sheikha Bint Saif Bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, Vice President of the Sultan Bin Khalifa Al Nahyan Humanitarian and Scientific Foundation, the fourth edition of Sheikha Hessa Bint Mohammed Al Nahyan Award for Holy Quran kicked off.  
The award, organized by Sultan Bin Khalifa Al Nahyan Humanitarian and Scientific Foundation in co-operation with Awqaf, saw the participation of female students from schools and Holy Quran memorisation centres from all over the UAE.
The primary qualifiers will continue for two weeks; the first week in April will be allocated for the students from Awqaf-affiliated centres, while the second week will be for school students. They will be held in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, the Western Region, Ajman and Fujairah in order to make it easier for the students to participate in the competition. The final eliminations will kick off in mid-May.
This year's competition includes eight categories which are convenient to the age groups of contestants. Thus, memorisation of one part of the Quran with Tajweed is assigned to youngest students, two parts to grade I and grade 2 students, three parts to grade 3 and grade 4 students, 4 parts to grade 5 and grade 6 students, five parts to grade 7, grade 8 and grade 9 students, six parts to grade 10, grade 11 and grade 12 students and fifteen parts to the entire Quran to all educational stages, provided that the age of the participant should not exceed 18 years. The competition is open to all interested students.
According to competition rules, the participation in the contest is strictly restricted to female students of schools and Holy Quran memorisation centres. Candidates may participate in one category only, except those applying for the beautiful voice category which they can participate also in one memorisation category. However, participants cannot participate in a category to which she applied for and made a ranking in the past years. A contestant should be nominated by a school or a Quran memorisation centre. The order of the memorised parts is not required.
It is worth mentioning that Sheikha Hessa Bint Mohammed Al Nahyan Award for Holy Quran, an activity of Sultan Bin Khalifa Al Nahyan Humanitarian and Scientific Foundation, is aimed at serving and taking care of the Holy Quran by encouraging the youth to memorise it proficiently. It also aims to focus on schoolgirls and encourage them to read the holy Quran, and look for and bring to light female students with distinguished talents in its memorisation, Tajweed and recitation. The award was first launched at the Al Shohub School for Girls in Abu Dhabi.
 













