addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In implementation of the government's wise directives for creating a comfortable and positive work environment for the mothers working in the UAE ministries and government entities, Awqaf established a model nursery at its premises.
On the occasion, HE Hamad Yusuf Mualla, Awqaf's Executive Director for Support Services, highlighted that the nursery keeps pace with the latest environmental specifications and educational methods used in bringing up children. It has become a model nursery in terms of its excellent health and psychological care, said Mr Mualla, adding that by adhering to such high standards the entity focuses on the employees' satisfaction and seeks enhancing productivity and performance excellence.
Mr Mualla also pointed out that a number of children completed the nursery phase and joined public schools. Those children had now passed kindergarten levels and would start next regular cycle in school.
He further explained that Awqaf's nursery had been refurbished t meet all the safety requirements as set by the tutor Ministry of Social Affairs. He added that up-to-date educational and recreational programmes that fit the children needs were put in place as well.
In addition to educational facilities and other necessary conveniences, the nursery comprises a health office. It is equipped with medical supply and manned by a resident licensed nurse through an outsourced employment contract with a private hospital. The nurse attends to the daily check-ups on the children's health, supervision of their nutrition and hygiene. The medical follow-up is further assured by monthly visits by a certified paediatrician to track children's physical growth, motor development and vaccination schedule as per the Health Authority. The medical staff provide medical report for mothers on the health of their children.
The nursery offers an environment conducive to learning, combining theoretical and practical activities. It also celebrates national and religious occasions and organises entertaining outings for children.
The nursery is under the management of qualified female personnel with extensive expertise in early childhood learning.
 













