addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the anniversary of Israa and Miraj, Awqaf held a big celebration at the Abu Dhabi Theatre in presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, the executive directors from Awqaf and a delegation from Al Azhar alongside a host of people from UAE.
Dr al Kaabi extended heartfelt greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates as well as the UAE citizens and residents, the Islamic nation and the whole world.
Dr al Kaabi also expressed his thanks to Al Azhar for participating in the event, and extended his greetings to its Grand Imam, His Eminence Dr Ahmed Moahmmed al Tayeb. On this occasion, he hailed the ongoing cooperation between the two institutions.
On behalf of Awqaf, Mr Abdulrahman al Shamsi, Awqaf's director of preaching department delivered a speech in which he first congratulated the UAE wise leadership. Mr al Shamsi said, "this occasion continues to be an ever-flowing river with a renewable source of human values and the virtues of true Islam. The world today is in dire need for commitment to such long-lasting valid values, without which, life will be intolerable. Undoubtedly, a society that lacks moral tenets will, eventually, lack stability. Yet, as much as good conducts are enshrined in people's mind, the society will be proportionately armed with self-immunity that touches the hearts of its members with happiness. Indeed, good conducts are conducive to bringing more security, welfare, advancement and prosperity for people. For this reason, of all the divine events that the Prophet was acquainted with during the Israa and Miraj journey, he emphasised the importance of committing to the principles of good conduct when dealing with one another."       
Mr al Shamsi then explained that the miracle of Israa and Miraj took the Messenger of Allah pbuh to great realms, showed him some of Allah's great signs and further empowered him to move forward in spreading his message and leading guidance despite of all challenges and obstacles that were brought in his way by the disbelievers.
"The first thing that we would like to bring into light is the status of truthfulness, which also reminds us of the standing of Abu Bakr As-Siddiq. Some of the companions went to Abu Bakr to tell him about the Israa and Miraj journey and said, 'Have you heard what your companion is saying? He is claiming that he went to Bayt Al Maqdis and came back to Mecca in one night!' Abu Bakr said, 'did he say that?' They said, 'Yes.' He said, 'then I bear witness that if he said that, he is speaking the truth.' They said, 'you believe that he went to Ash-Sham [Greater Syria] in one night?' He said, 'yes, if I believe him with regard to something even more than that, I will believe him in this.'"
Mr al Shamsi talked also about the high standing attributed to As-Siddiq, may Allah be pleased with him, all of the Prophet's companions, his family and wives.
He further underlined the importance of observing prayer in Islam, which, he said, was the only obligatory worship that Allah enjoined during the blessed night journey, making it a daily spiritual ascension for all Muslims to the Day of Judgment.
Mr Al Shamsi explained that our Prophet's leading other Prophets in prayer marked the integrity of the divine messages embodied with tolerance and compassion as shown by their followers. In an evidence of the same, Mr al Shamsi brought the Prophet's Hadith in which he said, "my similitude in comparison with the other prophets before me, is that of a man who has built a house nicely and beautifully, except for a place of one brick in a corner. The people go about it and wonder at its beauty, but say: 'Would that this brick be put in its place!' So I am that brick, and I am the last of the Prophets."
Other speakers from Al Azhar took the podium and extended sincere greetings of the Grand Imam to the UAE leadership and people, hailing the glorious stances of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, especially towards Egypt. UAE's support for development, cooperation and coordination will be ever-remembered by Egypt and the Egyptians, they outlined. 
Dr Ismail Abdulrahman, a scholar from Al Azhar, highlighted other aspects of Israa and Miraj, saying it was a miracle that Allah, the Almighty, attributed to the Prophet after the ordeals he and his companions endured in Mecca and Taif. Thus, the journey came to compensate and strengthen them as well as to remind people of Allah's great powers and the special status of His Messenger pbuh.
Dr Nasser Mohammed Abu Zeid explained that the Israa and Miraj journey marked the importance of protecting the integrity of individuals and promoting peaceful co-existence amongst them. This, he said, was represented in the meeting between the Prophet pbuh and the Prophets before him. 
In his speech, the preacher Omar al Derei from Awqaf underlined that this blessed journey was a means of support and insight into the future.
"It was a healing from the past, a provision for the present and a mirror to the future. It was a bridge of transformation and development between the hard times in Taif and the beginning of the new era in Medina. Truly, in this there is a lesson on how success can be achieved: through a lively spirit that sees in the future a determination on success and compassion," he concluded.
 













