addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf organised a workshop on neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), which was attended many employees. The course was aimed at increasing the efficiency of the attendees and enabling them to understand the NLP in a simplified way using tools and skills that would help them get more familiar with themselves as well as their aptitudes, style of thinking, performance and the obstacles that may be counterproductive to creativity and their ability to achieve goals.
The course came as part of intensive training courses offered by Awqaf in the framework of its strategic plan to improve the technical and skill-related level of its employees. The aim was to enhance the entity's production environment and reflect positively on applicants and customers by completing their transactions timely and in the best of ways.
The workshop addressed also a number of concepts, through which the participants discovered their own capabilities and potential positive energy. They were able to learn new possible prospects of harnessing careers for their own benefit and that of their family and society.
The participants were informed about how the NLP emerged, the presuppositions, the employment of the NLP and the techniques that would give the participant a superior capability to influence others. Such enablers are helpful in solving problems and learning how to embrace positive thinking, use strategic advantage and employ higher cognitive abilities when dealing with others. It will also help them learn and apply effective communication to achieve their goals, namely reaching the level when one can materalise innovation strategies.
The workshop was well received. Trainees showed keen interest in increasing their knowledge about NLP and make use of it to understand the human psychological makeup and handle it systematically. This knowledge is decisive in various cognitive processes, perception, thoughts and feeling, hence influencing behaviour, skills, physical, intellectual and psychological performance in general.
 













