addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf decided the number of pilgrims for each Hajj campaign to be 33 for this year's Hajj season, of them two will be from the UAE residents.
On another level, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia announced 14 Dhul Hijja, corresponding to September 15 or 16, as a cut-off date for the departure of all GCC pilgrims. This came after Saudi had determined that Dhul Hijja months will count 30 days every year regardless of the timing revealed in the calendar. Accordingly, all the UAE Hajj campaigns will arrive in Saudi on Dhul Hijja 4, corresponding to 4 or 5 of next September.
Awqaf opened its electronic registration system for the accredited Hajj operators to start signing on pilgrims. A set of regulations were circulated in this regard, including that the number of pilgrims for each operator shall not exceed 33, the campaigns that are tied up with other parties will not be allowed extra number of pilgrims, and operators shall not carry unregistered pilgrims.
As for the resident applicants, Awqaf required that they should obtain their employers' approval and must have biometric passports valid for at least 6 months. The same applies for their residency permits. Applicants should also physically fit to perform Hajj. Moreover, Awqaf required that the Hajj cost for both residents and citizens be the same and in accordance with the operator's programme for the current season.
On this occasion, Mr Mohammed Hamdi, marketing manager of Al Sidra for Hajj and Umrah, said that having a fixed date for the end of Dhul Hijja every year would help pilgrims and Hajj operators avoid fluctuating dates occurring at the end of the month, between 29 to 30. With the new timings, he said, the date for departure can be fixed, helping the pilgrims to make accurate bookings of their flights and hotels following the Gregorian calendar.  He further noted that the new procedures would also help put an end to pilgrims crowding and safeguard their rights from the consequences that the differences in dates might cause.
 













