addthis_pub="newawqaf";















He Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, has stressed the need for positive communication amongst people as urged by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "The believer is gracious, for there is no goodness in one who is neither kind nor friendly."
"Sociologists also say that humans are by nature social, but the modern tools of communication have caused an unprecedented social transformation, creating larger space for communication," Dr al Kaabi added.
"Thus, to deal realistically with (communications) technology will require of us taking actions to protect ourselves as well as our children from its disadvantages and to use it for good purposes," he said.
Dr al Kaabi affirmed that Awqaf not only acts as a source of guidance but it also spreads awareness about pros and cons of these means of communication. At the same time, it is not ignoring the importance of employing these means for the benefit of people and communities, he added.
To this effect, Awqaf's communication department is keen , through social media channels such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, to update the community on its news and activities, promote its services and campaigns and disseminate reliable national, social and religious awareness content, Dr al Kaabi said, noting that a total of 121,683 people interacted with Awqaf through these means of communication.
Friday sermon discussed the use of technology-based communication in a statement aimed at better guiding the society in  interacting with it. The sermon, titled "dealing with the modern communication technologies", explained that it is natural for people to interact and such communicative engagement amongst people is divinely induced disposition. This aptitude and ways of communication have been further evolved, thanks to technology.
The  sermon had yet warned people that they might do harm to others if they would have tracked their secrets and flaws or if they spread rumours through the various means of technology.
Amongst the rules and etiquette related is keeping away from destructive, falsehood and corrupt illusions as these are against religion, morals, values and norms. Avoiding them is crucial because of their destructive impact on the stability of societies.
 













