addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The reserve service, a part of the national service set forth in the Resolution no. 30 for 2014, whereby those who have performed national service, will be required once every year to perform a refresh training for one week to four weeks in maximum, said Colonel Mohammed Abdullah al Mulla, Director of Public Relations and Communication at the National and Reserve Service Authority. The first training is planned to take place in June 2016 while the third training is scheduled for alternative service to be held on March 28, he added.
This came during a seminar by Awqaf, which is organised at Al Ain Municipality. Present were Mr Abdul Aziz al Ghaithi Director of the National and Reserve Service Authority, a host of departments' directors, heads of sections and government employees from many sectors.
Shaikh Taleb al Shehhi, Director of the Preaching Department at the National and Reserve Service Authority, affirmed that the national service is an honour and a legitimate religious duty through which a recruit shows a sense of belonging and loyalty to the homeland, a kind of commitment translated into action to fend off dangers and temptations at times of crises.
Source of pride to homeland
In an opening speech, Col. al Mulla said, "the youths are the source of pride for the homeland, the symbol of its security and safety setting the good example to emulate by the UAE society.
 "Talking about the homeland and citizens reminds us of the founding fathers and forefathers, who spared no effort to build the nation, preserve its achievements and gains and maintain its security and safety.
"What we live today is the natural result of (achievements) made earlier and now is further capitalised on by our wise government under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and the Supreme Council Members the Rulers of the Emirates...", Col. al Mulla said, stressing, at the same time, that the youth are the pillars of the nation who are capable of preserving its acquisitions and achievements and taking the country forward to a brighter future governed by security, safety and a decent life.
Reserve and alternative service
Col. al Mulla explained that the reserve service stipulates that those who have performed the national service should be recalled once every year to join a refresh training of one week to up four weeks. The first course is due in June 2016, he added.
He also discussed cases and conditions for service. He explained that there are three categories of recruits and each will benefit from certain exempts specific to their physical fitness and abilities.  Degree 5 group include those, who are medically unfit to perform the national service. Therefore, they shall perform only the alternative service. Degree 2 category shall carry out all trainings, while Degree 4 class has to carry out lighter trainings in addition to some administrative service.
Col. al Mulla pointed out that recruits would join the third training for employees on March 28, while the 4th one would be scheduled for this year's high school graduates. He explained that the alternative service would be offered to those who cannot undergo military training for health reasons. The first alternative service of nine months would be held on March 28 for the employees of Etisalat and electricity and water authorities.
A national and legitimate duty
Later, Shaikh al Shehhi highlighted some verses and Hadiths that stressed the importance of love, loyalty and sense of belonging to the nation. He explained that the concept of homeland and patriotism is gauged by how much one is loyal to the country and how far one is ready to sacrifice oneself for its defense and security.
Shaikh al Shehhi underlined also the importance of obeying the Ruler, an essential thing for being loyal and attached to the homeland. He further noted that scholars of great authority in their fields affirmed, in their turn, that the concept of patriotism is the individuals' obligation to fulfill the homeland's legitimate rights due on him in all areas of life.
He talked about the danger of some websites, which were trying to undermine "our national cohesion" and disseminate subversive and poisonous ideas to shake the security and stability of "our homeland" as well as distort "our cultural and intellectual heritage".
"Indeed, patriotism is one of the most important manifestations that we must adhere to in our daily dealings. The homeland has rights that we should fulfill by showing our sense of belonging and loyalty and translating ideas into acts. One of defending the homeland is by performing the national service," Shaikh al Shehhi concluded.
Conditions and duties
Col.  al Mulla mentioned that UAE nationals aged 17 years and one day above have to perform the service and those who reached the age 30 years and one day are no longer obliged to perform the service. He affirmed also that the basic training is part of the service, which lasts 9 months for those with university qualifications and two years for those with less than high school certificates.
 













