addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The new headquarters of the Official Fatwa Centre is to open shortly. It is planned to accommodate more scholars and Muftis in line with Awqaf's expansion plan, said HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
Dr al Kaabi added that Awqaf is planning to develop preaching in mosques based on principles of leniency, easiness and moderation, as well as to promote the religious discourse in media outlets through speakers of authority in their fields.
Dr al Kaabi pointed out that Awqaf's board of directors had recently agreed increasing staff and researchers, versed in Arabic and English, in the centre. Qualified staff in the oration and public speech unit will also be increased in number.  The board also agreed to allocate budget from Waqf revenues to cover salaries of Imams, Muezzins, mosque supervisors and technicians across many disciplines, he added.
1.8 million Fatwas
Dr al Kaabi said the toll- free-line had so far received more than 1.8 million religious queries in Arabic, English and Urdu. It had also received 280,000 questions via SMS to the telephone lines dedicated for women and through the hotline, he added.
Dr al Kaabi mentioned that it was the Islamic scholars who first addressed extremism and terrorism. In fact, this reflects the ability of the Islamic jurisprudence and the religious discourse to keep pace with life's developments through transparency, leniency, tolerance and wisdom, he said.
"The problem lies in the misconception of the purposes of Sharia and the wisdom of legislation as is the case with the secret organisations and the series of violence and extremism originating from them," Dr al Kaabi explained.
Strategic planning
On the strategic planning role in promoting religious culture, Dr al Kaabi said, "Awqaf is a federal government entity that promotes religious culture through strategic planning that understands the present reality and foresees the future challenges."
"This means producing religious thought that keeps up with the developments of modern life and is open to others; an approach encompasses fundamental principles and variables, as well. It is this line of methodology that Islam calls for as seen in adhering to obligatory duties, moral values, cooperation, tolerance and leniency in the best interest of the evolving life of people.  In this sphere, there are wider opportunities for exploring and development," he said.
Dr al Kaabi explained that the Official Fatwa Centre had succeeded in regulating the Fatwa and unifying its reference source through a group of qualified and reliable male and female scholars, who are specialists in their field.
"The aim is consolidate principles of moderation and tolerance in the society through Fatwas over the phone, SMS and online. The Centre adopts a unique religious approach and employs sophisticated electronic systems, making of it a trustworthy source for answering religious questions by people from all walks of life," Dr al Kaabi said.
Development
On Awqaf's vision, Dr al Kaabi said, "Awqaf is a UAE leading entity promoting social awareness and progress in accordance with the tolerant teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges. Its mission lies in promoting religious awareness by building and maintaining mosques and Quranic memorisation centres, managing Hajj and Umra affairs and investing in Waqf for the good of society, while its corporate values are embodied in sincerity, honesty and objectivity."
 













