addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Any wise observer can realise that the Human Rights Watch reports lack integrity, objectivity and accuracy, because it seems to be under the influence of authors who are biased or possibly lacking knowledge of the happy life enjoyed by citizens and residents alike across the UAE, said Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
"The organisation has become similar to yellow press that tends to be sensational, using defamation as strategy, and drawing on unfounded reasoning. We hereby remind those in charge of this suspicious organisation that the UAE is a state of rights and law as well as an institution-based. Here no one is treated unfairly, regardless of their status or occupation. All people are equal before the law, which guarantees the freedom of belief and expression to all the UAE population," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
"Moreover, all the world venues concerned with rights and freedoms testify that the UAE is one amongst a few countries that host hundreds of nationalities that belong to various creeds and cultures living in full harmony and peaceful coexistence, all in a secure society governed by love and mutual respect", Dr al Kaabi added.
The Islamic religion and the UAE wise leadership, which is keenly interested in preserving human rights, made the UAE the happiest country that offers an environment for coexistence and cooperation, Dr al Kaabi said, noting that even Friday sermons and mosques are offered to all nationalities because all people in the UAE are equal in terms of rights and duties.
"As a result, the UAE people enjoy security and peace. Nobody can be treated unfairly in the UAE because the law, justice, security, stability, happiness and dignity are for all," Dr Al Kaabi said, adding that those who come to the UAE would realise this fact at mosques, parks and all public facilities in the UAE.
"We are very surprised that the said organisation, which is supposed to be honest in giving credible reports, would engage in such errors and fallacies that lack any support or evidence and reflect malice against the UAE on the part of some of its authors. I wonder if they know that workers and employees residing in the UAE are looked at as partners in building the UAE's modern civilisation and prosperity and are owed appreciation, respect and love by officials and fellow citizens," Dr al Kaabi highlighted. 
"Our wise leadership has empowered women and paved the way for them to work and seek knowledge in order to increase their contribution, strengthen their presence and bolster their constructive participation. As a result, women in UAE have made great strides in science and learning and contributed diligently to building the society, developing the country and serving the nation side by side with men until they have assumed higher positions in all walks of life," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













