addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Keeping pace with the approach followed by the UAE wise leadership locally, regionally and globally and in the  implementation of the 4th generation of government excellence system initiative of HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Awqaf is currently working on three major tracks, said Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
"The first track relates nurturing a generation of specialised knowledge amongst national professionals in both the master's and doctorate degrees in Islamic studies and developing religious discourse in such a manner to the authenticity of Islam and its ability to keep up with the modern developments," explained Dr al Kaabi.
"To achieve that, it is necessary to form intellectual and jurisprudential personnel capable of devising, keeping up with the spirit of the age and introducing an authentic and modern Islamic discourse. This will include also supporting the Fatwa Official Centre, which is regarded as the most up-to-date at Islamic level, using state-of-the-art technology. All of this is in line with Awqaf's vision, which recognises the current realities and understands the future challenges, he explained. 
The second track concerns Awqaf's mosques and their mission, Dr al Kaabi said. "In this regard, Awqaf's approach rests on building modern mosques with fine facilities based on environmentally sustainable requirements."
Speaking about the third track related to the management of waqf, Dr al Kaabi said, "Awqaf is fully aware that the global economy in general and the GCC's in particular have evolved into a knowledge-based one. Statistics demonstrate to what extent the efficient strategies adopted have helped boosting development and investment. As you may know, there are various resources of Waqf funds and it is very important for such resources to be used in the best form to serve the society."  
"We are striving to put all these aspects and many others on the track of excellence as well as to seek innovative ideas and mechanisms with the aim of attaining the highest standards of achievement and development as pursued by our beloved country," concluded Dr al Kaabi.













