addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Executive Director of Islamic Affairs at Awqaf, delivered a lecture at Sheikh Mohammed bin Salim bin Kubaina al Rashidi Majlis in Abu Dhabi. 
The move was in line with Awqaf's cabinet-approved strategic plan to develop the community culture and promote the entity's achievements. It also came in implementation of its approach to reach out to members of the public.
Mr al Mazrouei first hailed the approach of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, which had been characterised by wisdom and giving. He also commended on the ongoing support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the emirates.
Mr al Mazrouei later briefed the audience on the outstanding services provided by Awqaf stressing its innovative initiatives aimed at best serving the interests of the country and religion.  He also discussed Awqaf's services designed for the happiness of the community in line with its mission laid down by the UAE wise leadership.
Mr al Mazrouei shed light on the principles of moderation, tolerance, forbearance and coexistence amongst the UAE citizens and residents in the country. Such principles are deeply rooted in the UAE society, he said, adding that that had made of UAE a home of happiness and tolerance as well as an example for the world to emulate.
Mr al Mazrouei further presented Awqaf's activities and achievements, letting the audience expressed their appreciation of the commendable efforts done by Awqaf in public services and awareness programmes.
At close of the lecture, the Majlis host and the audience extended their thanks to the UAE prudent leadership under Presidency of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, praying to Allah to bless him with further health and wellness. They also implored to Him to continue granting success to the UAE to be the country of happiness and prosperity as well as an oasis of safety and security for all. 
 













