addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















The United Nations Alliance of Civilisations (UNAOC) and Religions for Peace organised a high-level international consultation in Tokyo, Japan on May 12-13 under the motto: "Partnering with Religious Leaders of the Middle East in Advancing the Protection of Minorities in Muslim Majority States".
The consultations derived from the recent "Marrakesh Declaration" and saw the participation of around 60 religious leaders from a broad range of religious communities. 
Senior Muslim scholars and religious leaders took part in the consultations, including HE Sheikh Abdallah Bin Bayyah, President of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies, based in Abu Dhabi, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf in the UAE, HE Dr Abdullah Maatouq al Maatouq, United Nations Secretary General's Humanitarian Envoy, Ayatollah Ahmed Mubalighi, Rector of  University of Islamic Sciences of Iran, Sheikh Hamza Yusuf Hanson, President of Zaytuna College in California, and a number of other eminent personalities.  
The religious leaders convened ahead of the G7 Summit held in Japan in mid-May. The meeting was aimed to reaffirm the historical document referred to as the "Marrakesh Declaration" for Protecting Religious Minorities in Muslim Countries. The declaration was an outcome of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies held recently under the high patronage of His Majesty King Mohammed VI of Morocco and the stewardship of HE Sheikh Abdallah bin Bayyah, Chairman of the Forum.
The declaration was based upon the Medina Charter and had been welcomed by many decision makers and key players in the inter-faith field as well as within the human rights organisations. It is regarded as an international document that embraces religious and moral values, reinforcing the principles of peaceful coexistence and supporting the notion of inclusive citizenship for all.
In his remarks, HE Abdullah bin Bayyah, stressed that the leaders present here today all came to support the principles of brotherhood in the best interest of mankind.
"Those leaders have never lost hope in the good nature of mankind which emanates from the true, non-deviated faith. Religion is like a source of power; when used in the good cause it can nurture gardens and greeneries. Yet, when it is ill-used, it will become a destructive weapon such as the one that wrecked havoc on Japan in the past," bin Bayyah added.
Bin Bayyah noted that the Marrakesh Declaration was based on the principle of indiscrimination and was an example of the Islamic community turning to its own "pharmacy" to find the "cure" to heal distorted interpretations of Islam.
"All the Islamic scholars present here agreed on the great importance of establishing the original Islamic positive approach to peaceful pluralistic communities where Muslims and non-Muslims live side by side in peace and harmony with full citizenship for all, regardless of their race, colour or religion," he underlined.
For his part, HE Dr al Kaabi brought into light that the Marrakesh Declaration analysed and revived the civilised authentic example of the Medina Charter.
"The UAE sets a contemporary example of the Medina Charter. Its community is built on the principles of harmony, moderation, peaceful coexistence and the freedom of worship for all. Such an approach is seen and felt on the ground by supporting a culture that combats extremism and promotes forbearance. A good example on this was the anti-discrimination and anti-hatred law recently issued in the UAE," Dr al Kaabi highlighted.
Dr al Kaabi concluded his speech by proposing a number of practical solutions that may help efforts to put the Marrakesh Declaration into effect. These included: Identifying studies that lay down the principles of contractual citizenship, providing these institutions with such research and addressing states to issue regulations that ensure the concept of citizenship following the UAE leading example and finally launching joint-initiative to promote  peaceful coexistence.
The representatives of other religious communities hailed the Marrakesh Declaration and its importance for building just and harmonious societies, and also committed themselves to using their respective religious traditions in active support of the declaration and its objectives.
 
 













