addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, presented the UAE wise leadership's approach to counter extremism and Takfiri ideology at the International conference on extremism and Takfiri ideology held in Jordan from May 17 to 18, 2016, bringing into light Awqaf's example to rebut such ideologies.
Dr al Kaabi extended greetings on behalf of the UAE's prudent leadership represented by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi also expressed thanks to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for its kind invitation to Awqaf to participate in the conference held under the high auspices of His Majesty King Abdullah bin Al Hussein.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi underscored the strategic relationship between the UAE and Jordan governments and peoples, hailing the great efforts by the General Iftaa Department of Jordan in combating extremism and terrorism.
"This international conference is a leading initiative in the right direction towards freeing the religious discourse from the clutches of the extremist groups who hijacked the religion and claimed that they were establishing a state of Islam. As such, they called people to disobey their rulers and formed criminal groups. They issue Takfiri Fatwas against anyone, younger or elder, who rejects their deviation and oppose to their extremism. Thus, we see those groups accusing rulers of disbelief, claiming they do not adhere to Allah's decrees. They declare people 'disbelievers' because they rally behind their rulers and scholars as well because they do not declare their rulers 'apostates'," said Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "those Takfiri gangs declare 'apostates' whoever does not follow them or who accepts their call but does not swear a pledge to their leader. Yet, those who give the pledge and thereafter retreat, they are seen as 'infidels' and thereby deserve to be killed. Moreover, they consider all the Islamic era after the fourth century as an era of apostasy, forcing Muslims to leave their countries and head on the path of Fitnah."
"Those groups invented their own anti-Islam laws, disobeyed the advocacies of our Master Muhammad pbuh and deviated from the path of his companions. They base their ideologies on Ayas which they misinterpret and, hence, distort their true goals. As a result, their deviated thoughts translated into the most heinous crimes, terrifying the safe people, shedding blood, spreading corruption and committing the most devilish sins," Dr al Kaabi added.  
He further underlined that the terrorist and criminal acts they committed in the name of Jihad were distorting its objectives.
"Jihad in Islam is the exclusive competence of the ruler who makes all possible arrangements and uses all possible means to fight the enemies. This entails training the soldiers and the armed forces as well as unifying them, examining the conditions of the battle and deciding its place and time in what best serves the interests stipulated by the law," Dr al Kaabi explained.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed that the Prophet pbuh prohibited Jihad under the leadership of groups who abandoned the Islamic laws to fight under the flag of sectarianism and extremism, bringing as evidence his Hadith, "Whoever defects from obedience (to the Amir) and separates from the main body of the Muslim - and dies in that state - dies the death of one belonging to the days of Jahiliyya. And he who is killed under the banner of a man who is blind (to the cause for which he is fighting), who gets flared up with family pride and fights for his tribe is not from my Ummah. And whosoever from my followers attacks my followers (indiscriminately) killing the righteous and the wicked of them, sparing not (even) those staunch in faith and fulfilling not his obligation towards them who have been given a pledge (of security), is not from me (i.e. is not my follower)."
"Thus, Muslim youth should not be allured with such erroneous ideologies. They should not accept that their Jihad become an instrument for destroying facilities, blasting mosques and shops and killing the innocent people although they live in Islamic countries where justice is applied, rights are safeguarded, mosques are constructed, religious rites are performed, the voice of truth is abound and the people feel secure about their lives, wealth, honour and properties," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
 













