addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of its ongoing coordination with the Holy Quran Radio Abu Dhabi (ADHQR), Awqaf held a meeting at its headquarters with the ADHQR's representatives, which was presided by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.   
The meeting was aimed at unifying visions, promoting the religious discourse based on principles of moderation and forbearance, developing the religious and media content and fostering the culture of dialogue. This will, in turn, reinforce the UAE's approach of forbearance and peaceful co-existence as well as entrench the values of happiness and loyalty in the community. 
Dr al Kaabi welcomed the ADHQR team, which included ADHQR's chairman, managers of production and programmes, directors and presenters. He hailed the excellence achieved by the ADHQR in reaching out to all people in the UAE community and neighbouring countries as well as through its website. Such efforts are in harmony with the UAE wise leadership's keen interest in further highlighting the pure image of Islam via all the religious, media, educational and cultural outlets, Dr al Kaabi said.
For his part, HE Mr. Abdul Rahman al Tuneiji, valued Awqaf's support to ADHQR by providing it with religious and cultural content as well as specialised speakers from amongst its scholars, Muftis and preachers. Awqaf also developed and enriched the content of ADHQR's programmes with sound Fiqh and thoughts, he added.
Mr. al Tuneiji extended special thanks to the religious committee responsible for overseeing the radio's programmes in such a manner to best serve the achievement of harmony between both sides' vision and mission.
During the meeting, it was agreed that Awqaf will provide the ADHQR with Emirati male and female preachers to take part in preparing and presenting the radio's religious programmes. Awqaf will also provide the ADHQR with the finest Emirati Quran reciters and Imams. For its part, the ADHQR will record recitations of the whole Quran done by Emirati young reciters selected by Awqaf.
Awqaf stressed the importance of streaming Friday sermons in English and Urdu as well as enhancing the religious programmes. This can be achieved by diversifying the programmes' topics to cover Tafsir (interpretation), the aesthetics of the Arabic language, the latest Fiqh related to financial transactions and other daily life matters as well as programmes dedicated to raise awareness of modern Waqf investments that best serve the community.
Awqaf and ADHQR agreed to also dedicate part of the radio programmes to the holy Quran memorisation centres across the UAE, those being an important means to motivate the youngsters with the serene recitations and selected supplications.
On another level, Awqaf and ADHQR will jointly produce a number of programmes on the UAE mosques, its architecture and civilised role in the comprehensive urban progress witnessed all over the country.
The meeting was attended from Awqaf's side by HE Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Executive Director for Islamic Affairs and the Directors of Preaching, Research, Government Communication departments alongside a number of highly accredited members.
From ADHQR side, the meeting was attended by the managers of production and programmes as well as a number of directors. 













