addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The first batch of scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, arrived in the UAE, announced Awqaf, noting that 25 scholars from Egypt and Morocco are expected to arrive today at Abu Dhabi International Airport. The other scholars are set to arrive respectively.
Announcement came during a press conference held by Awqaf yesterday at the Intercontinental Hotel, a place where scholars will stay during the month of Ramadan.
During the conference, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that 185 mosques would be opened this year, 85 of which in Ramadan.
Fighting and conflicts
Speaking in the press briefing, Dr al Kaabi stressed that the scholars' Majlises will see this year thorough discussions on Islam and how to further highlight its tolerant principles. Scholars will also address efforts aimed at promoting awareness in the society about the deviations of the extremist groups which are distorting the image of Islam all over the world, he added.
"Countries around the world are tired of the delusions, violence and terrorism of those groups, which committed the most hideous humanitarian crimes against homelands, mankind and religions," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
He further noted that the guest scholars are renowned scientific and religious references in the Islamic world and the international forums.
"Our Islamic world, especially the Arab part of it, is suffering of fighting and strife, seeing Arabs and Muslims fighting each other. Thus, we are in dire need to promote awareness within our communities about the dangers of such Takfiri ideology. We should highlight the true image of the society of peace and compassion," Dr al Kaabi said.
"Combating such ideologies witnessed birth here in the UAE society, one that is righteous and fortified against extremism and violence. Thanks to efforts by our wise leadership, our society had become a happy one," Dr al Kaabi further stressed.
Misconceptions
Concerning the responsibility for correcting the misconceptions that our nation is suffering from, Dr al Kaabi said the scholars, guests of HH the President, and as a matter of scientific integrity, are responsible to do so. They are also responsible to cleanse people's minds from the residue of such misleading misconceptions that are aimed to destroy Islam, he added.
"We, at Awqaf, were always keenly interested in hosting scholars who are known for their academic and scientific contributions. They base their advocacies on the true religion and work for the best interest of their countries and peoples. While so doing, they also make sure to give sound opinions away from extremism and deviation," Dr al Kaabi pointed out. 
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that Awqaf completed all arrangements for hosting a group of 35 elite scholars from amongst the Islamic world to take part in the Programme of Scholars, being overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs. The scholars will revive the nights of Ramadan with selected lessons, lectures and forums. They come from Egypt, Morocco, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Yemen, Jordan, Algeria, Tunisia, Mauritania, Guinea, America, Britain and India. They include academics, Muftis, judges and preachers, Dr al Kaabi explained, adding that by hosting such programme every year, HH Sheikh Khalifa was following the approach of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He further explained that this initiative is under the patronage of HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs.
Preserving Houses of Allah
Concerning mosques and its development, Dr al Kaabi said that 185 mosques would be opened this year, 85 of which in the holy month of Ramadan, adding that Awqaf has prepared all the mosques for the fasting people, males and females, to perform their worships. To this end, around 1869 mosques were refurbished, 520 others were refurnished and new A/C units were provided for another 545 and around 4542 other mosques were provided with new carpets, he said.
Programme Highlights
Dr al Kaabi briefed the audience on the Programme saying that, throughout its events, the participating scholars will shed light on the UAE wise leadership's initiatives related to the year or reading as well as the culture of moderation and happiness it promotes in the community.  
"At Awqaf, we regard reading as the backbone of our mission in guiding the generations and developing their creative reading, be it at Quran memorisation, mosques, media outlets or social media platforms.
Dr al Kaabi clarified that the Programme topics will revolve around means of combating the extremist and terrorist groups by using scientific and media effective methods. This will also be achieved through conducting selective seminars with Muftis to discuss the latest developments regarding Fiqh and its modern aspects. The Programme will also include holding gatherings and forums with male and female preachers and mosques Khateebs and Imams aiming to discuss the modern religious discourse, covering its issues, challenges and ways to develop it.
Lectures and forums
Elaborating on the Programme events, Dr al Kaabi said that the scholars will deliver lectures at mosques, Majlises, media outlets forums and community institutions in the first day of Ramadan. Moreover, the 19th of Ramadan will see the Grand Evening marking the Zayed Humanitarian Day, which commemorates the founding father, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, builder of modern UAE, he added.
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that the Programme's events also include seminars and evenings that will address themes like: intellectual fortification against destructive ideologies, patriotic principles for safe community, youth's challenges and aspirations, Iftaa and development, Maliki's Fiqh of adversity and the Zayed humanitarian Work Day, just to mention a few. 
Hardships
For his part, Mr. Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Executive Director of Awqaf, spoke in the press briefing, saying, "our Islamic and Arab world is going through hardships. From this perspective, and based on Awqaf's mission to promote tolerance, love and compassion, we seek through the holy month of Ramadan to refresh the atmospheres by highlighting the magnificence of Islam, the religion that stands for peace and love and not for terrorism and murders. Our prudent leadership is keenly interested in supporting the religious activities in the UAE. Such interest can be seen on ground through hosting the Scholars, guests of HH the President, may Allah protect him. The initiative is aimed at promoting people's awareness of their religious matters in the correct manner."
 













