addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Through its website and social media accounts, Awqaf presented a film which was produced using the infographic technology.  The film explains the correct and lawful method for endowers to create their continuing charity at the official authorities specified for Waqf.
The film, which was produced using a state-of-the-art technology, explains the meaning of Waqf as a continuing charity designated by the endower for charitable causes, the reward of which reaches its doer even after death. It also shows the lawful mechanism an endower should follow for the Waqf to be lawful. 
On the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that Awqaf is keenly interested to reach out to community members from all walks of life in an easy manner that keeps pace with our modern technology age. He added that the film was recently streamed online and via the social media channels. It presented a short story demonstrating the mechanism for dedicating one's wealth or a portion of it at an authorised entity, like Awqaf, and specify the type of Waqf, in its entirety or a portion of it, for a land, estate, apartment, farm or any other type of Waqf.
Dr al Kaabi pointed out that the film highlights the importance of granting the charity to the authorised authorities so that the Waqf disbursement could be done in accordance with the endower's wishes. Through infographics and analysis, the film gives clear information about the documents to be submitted by the endower, he explained.
"As per its vision, Awqaf is a global Islamic reference and a sustainable Waqf development powerhouse. Its mission focuses on promoting religious awareness, developing mosques and Quranic centres, producing religious Fatwas, managing Hajj and Umrah, developing Waqf and crafting innovative smart systems for the happiness of the community," Dr al Kaabi underscored, stressing that the film is part of a series of innovative technologies that Awqaf is planning use in implementing many other projects in the near future.
"The film is a simulation of the steps and mechanism of establishing the estate Waqf, such as a land, a building, a farm or a portion of them. This is presented through easy steps that starts with the endower approaching the court with the necessary documents, including the title deed, the plan and municipality certificate, along with two witnesses. Based on such documents, the judge specifies the endower, the Waqf, the beneficiary, Waqf execution date and Waqf executor," Dr al Kaabi further explained. 
It also demonstrates the steps for an endower to donate a third of his/her wealth. Those steps begin with the endower carrying the legal documents to the court accompanied by two witnesses. Then, the film shows the documents required for authenticating the will as well as the way of establishing the Waqf, including the type of Waqf (third of the wealth), disbursement channel, commencement date and Waqf executor, elaborated Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi concluded by saying, "As part of its community awareness initiatives, Awqaf launched a number of Waqf-related publications and is working on implementing several other initiatives for the happiness of the community. To achieve this, Awqaf is keenly interested in making best use of modern technology, keeping pace with the UAE wise leadership's calls for innovation and creativity. Infographic technology is one of the fastest informative means in our modern age. Through images and data, and via the shortest way, it represents a short story that is effective in influencing the audience."
 













