addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Through the Ramadan series "Khiyanat Watan" (The Betrayal of a Country), a message with deep meanings forming a "beam of light" was sent by Awqaf, expressing utmost love and loyalty to the homeland, said Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
"Awqaf was part of the interactive fabric between the community and the drama, which attracted the attention of UAE families during Ramadan," said Dr al Kaabi, adding that loyalty to one's nation comes first and foremost and devotion to its service is a medal of honour that adorns each citizen's chest.
"The plot of the drama, which airs on Abu Dhabi TV and is considered as the first politically themed drama in the history of Emirati television, represents a true and transparent image of what is going on around us. It unveils the secrets of members of extremist groups who betrayed their religion and country," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
He noted that the show was aimed to sends a clear warning message to the community, particularly the youths, with a view to enlighten their minds in the face of such alien misleading groups and guide them back to the correct principles of Islam.
Dr al Kaabi then talked about the content of the enlightening message that Awqaf conveyed through the drama by means of a promotional video about the holy Quran.
"Before addressing Awqaf's promotional video, we would like to highlight that the hashtag of this drama via the social media succeeded in attracting more than 19 million impressions since its first episode. Such interaction is a clear evidence that all Emiratis as well as Arab and Islamic peoples deny such fanatical ideology and its followers. All of them are against any deviation in one's loyalty to the religion and the nation," Dr al Kaabi underlined, adding that Awqaf was part and parcel of such Arab and Islamic interaction.
"Amidst the development of the drama's events, Awqaf sought to extend a greeting message that comprised a mixture of the Islamic forbearance principle and the value of loyalty to one's homeland. For this purpose, the holy Quran is the most pure and noble means through which Awqaf can express its utmost satisfaction with such a religious, cultural and social consciousness," Dr al Kaabi said.
Shedding light on the promotional video which is inserted in the drama, Dr al Kaabi said, "the video features the story of Quran learning in the UAE in the past and present, starting from the 'Katateeb' (Quranic schools) where children, males and females, used to learn Quran sciences. Using a scene from an old film (black and white), we highlighted the real social and financial aspects of life at that time. Then, the movie goes on to the modern time, showing the Quran memorisation centres established by the UAE wise leadership across the country, accommodating a total number of 42000 students. It demonstrates the various smart learning services provided at those centres for people from all age groups, including Emirati youngsters, adults and elderly as well as other Arab and non-Arab residents."
Such development is the result of sincere efforts by the UAE leaders who believe that the homeland is a combination of religion and the nation, he stressed.
"The film, which runs for 60 seconds, is a unique development in Awqaf's approach in dealing with the visual world. Such an inspirational film which is in harmony with the context of events is the beginning of a series of films that Awqaf intends to release in order to convey purposeful messages at specific times and circumstances," Dr al Kaabi explained.
"Islam is not against literature and arts. On the contrary, it makes best use of such mixture to inspire a Muslim character that is balanced in theory, religion, loyalty and belonging to the country away from any kind of deviance towards extremism," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
"The Betrayal of a Country" drama is based on the novel "Retaj", issued by Kuttab publishing house and written by Dr Hamad al Hammadi who described it as "the first politically themed drama in the history of Emirati television."
On another level, UAE citizens took to Twitter to express how much they liked the show with some tweets stressing that "country comes first and foremost", while others said that the drama uncovers the dark and secret workings of the Muslim Brotherhood. Other tweets stated that this work was aimed at achieving a noble goal in "warning the community, particularly the youths, and enlightening their minds against the deviations of such alien groups". "The timing of the show is perfect. It comes after Iftar when all the family members gather to watch the destructive plans weaved by this secret organisation against their children," another tweet said.
In an earlier statement for Dr Hamad al Hammadi, the writer, said, "I was moved by the issuance of the verdict on the case of the members of the secret branch of Muslim Brotherhood on July 2, 2013. At that time, I knew that people were not aware of the complete truth and I was keenly interested in giving them a better idea about what has happened. Such national issues should be documented by means of literary works. This is because what gets published about them through the media outlets may not reach to all the young people since those are normally not interested in such mediums. Thus, I decided to let them know about it through literature and art." Apparently, the drama has achieved a great success since its first episode. The hashtag which carries the title of the drama that was built on the novel instantly became trending with more than 19 million impressions. In fact, this is something that cannot happen easily, he concluded.
"Side box"
Khiyanat Watan is broadcast on Abu Dhabi TV each night at 7.50pm, with repeats at 3.30am and 8.30am. On Abu Dhabi Drama it is broadcast at midnight with repeat at 12:30pm. The show is directed by Ahmad al Muqla with a cast of more than 70 actors, including Habib Ghuloom, Haifa Hussain and Merei al Halyan. 
 













