addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf held yesterday at the Officers' Club in Abu Dhabi a symposium under the title "Fiqh Al Nawazil in the Maliki School" (jurisprudence of momentous events). The symposium targeted Muftis of the Official Fatwa Centre, PhD students at Mohammed V University as well as students, Imams and Khateebs from Abu Dhabi.
The seminar saw the participation of scholar Dr al Hussain Mohammed Ayat Saeed, former president of the postgraduate studies in Rabat, who addressed the importance of Fiqh al Nawazil in the Maliki Madhab. Participants also included HE Dr Qutb Mustafa Sano, Minister Counsellor to the President of the Republic of Guinea and vice-president of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation in Jeddah. Dr Sano examined the influence of customs and common interests on the Maliki's Fiqh al Nawazil.
Meanwhile, His Eminence Dr Mohammed Abdul-Rahman al Sheikh Mohammed, an Islamic expert at Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre, spoke about the importance of making best use of the wealth of scientific and objective literature left by the Malikis to device solutions for contemporary issues. 
Talking about Fiqh al Nawazil, Dr al Hussain Mohammed said although it was common in all Islamic Fiqh schools, yet the Maliki and Hanafi schools served this approach of jurisprudence the most in the contemporary age. This is because the Hanafi Fiqh is followed in a number of Islamic countries and the Maliki Fiqh is followed in the Maghreb countries and Andalusia, in addition to other issues of contemporary life that necessitate using the Islamic jurisprudence to tackle them.
He cited three factors for the prosperity and development witnessed across the Maghreb countries in the field of Fiqh Al Nawazil throughout several centuries. The first being the urban stability accompanied with ethnic, social, religious and philosophical diversity, especially in Andalusia.
The second factor he mentioned was that Iftaa and Judicial authorities in Andalusia and the Maghreb countries were the exclusive competence of scholars who followed the Maliki School. They had to deal with numerous unprecedented occurrences that required thorough research before reaching to sound conclusions for the interest of the public. Such opinions were either based on textual evidences or given in view of the presumed public interests, or what is presently called "Fiqh of reality", he further explained noting that Fiqh Al Nawazil is, in fact, an area of Islamic jurisprudence that deals with contemporary issues and is based on finding harmony between textual rulings and the public interests.  
As regards to the third factor, Dr al Hussain Mohammed said that this branch of Fiqh is amongst the most significant elements aimed at drawing closer the views of Muslims and non-Muslims. This is because Fiqh Al Nawazil is flexible so as to accommodate life requirements for people from all nationalities and denominations, he explained.
For his part, scholar Al Hussain Ayat further explained that Fiqh Al Nawazil has many other names, such as the "Fiqh Al Tanzili", "Fiqh Al Maalat and Al Maqassid or the "Fiqh of reality". In his book "Al-Muwafaqat" Imam al Shatibi made a remarkable effort in documenting such area of jurisprudence, he noted.
Concerning the role of "Customs and public interests" in Fiqh Al Nawazil, the Minister Faqih Qutb Mustafa Sano, an economic expert who is well-known amongst scientists and jurisprudence hubs, presented a number of important topics. He highlighted that the Fiqh of Imam Malik, Imam Dar al Hijra, was, in fact, based on the Fiqh of Umar Ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him.
Elaborating further on the topic, the Faqih Sano said Imam Malik was known for having strong grasp of the theoretical teachings and ability to tackle the then developments in the Islamic community which significantly evolved at his time.
"From being limited to the companions' community and in Medina, the Islamic community expanded to all around the world. From there, the dawn of Fiqh Al Nawazil emerged and was widely practiced by the Maliki followers in Medina, Andalusia and other regions. This is because those communities witnessed enormous developments that necessitated a scholarly competency to address them," he said
Fiqh Al Nawazil relies much on the public interest concept in devising legal rulings. The majority of Maliki Fiqh is based on Istihsan (to seek the best public interest) and Maslaha (public interest). This is why Malikis said "Promoting the public interest and preventing corruption are the key potentials of Muftis and jurists," he further explained.
The modern Fiqh of interests is an area of jurisprudence that tackles financial development and is the basis for Islamic economy and investment, especially for multi-national organisations, Sano underlined, noting that thanks to this branch of Figh a serious financial crisis was avoided.
Referring to customs and traditions, Sano highlighted that they are closely related to Fiqh Al Nawazil and were widely used as secondary sources for deriving rulings as long as they were not in contradiction with Quran and Sunnah. To support his statement, he cited Ibn Masood, may Allah be pleased with him, saying, "Whatever the Muslims view as good is good in the sight of Allah."
On another level, the expert Mufti Dr Mohammed Abdul Rahman shed light on the contemporary issues received by the UAE Official Fatwa Centre.
"If the diversity of nationalities within a community or a country is a key factor in producing Fatwas for the best interest of the public, then the UAE sets a modern example where people from more than 200 countries are living in a state of cooperation in terms of economic, investment, religious and humanitarian arenas," he underscored.
"Thanks to the UAE's ability to establish harmony between heritage and modernity, authenticity and fast paced life developments, the Official Fatwa Centre has issued more than 2.5 million Fatwas, thousands of them come under Fiqh Al Nawazil area of jurisprudence," Dr Abdul Rahman added.
"In our age, Fatwas related to economy, banking, business and the impact of technology on the community constitute the core of Fiqh Al Nawazil. The Islamic jurisprudence, has never been, and will never be an obstacle in the way of development, advancement and modern renaissance," he concluded.
 













