addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Starting from the current week, Awqaf is set to start a number of events inside its stands at a number of grand shopping malls, which were specially set up to support the Waqf campaign dedicated for Quran memorisation centres in the UAE.
The events are aimed at promoting the public's awareness of the campaign's goals, highlighting the role played by the Quranic centres and further enhancing the culture of Waqf in the community.
The team dedicated for the campaign is scheduled to check on the preparedness of the stands and ensure that all the necessary requirements are in place before the commencement of the events.
The event, which will be held after Taraweeh prayer and run for 2 hours, will mainly focus on contesting the students and members of the public about particulars from the text of the holy Quran. Contestants who give correct answers will win valuable prizes. Announcements about the campaign will be posted through Awqaf's accounts on social media channels. The events will be organised according to a fixed schedule, ensuring that all the malls are covered several times before the end of Ramadan.
On another level, a grand event will be organised during the last few days of Ramadan to conclude the activities. During such event, Awqaf intends to announce plans for the sustainability of the Waqf campaign for Quran memorisation centres across the country. Future programmes will also be revealed.  
On the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed that Awqaf recently made sure to enrich the components of its stands at shopping malls. Efforts included providing a side stand for displaying Awqaf's publications and those relating to its campaign. Several roll-up stands with data and graphics were also arranged to explain the nature of the outcomes of the Quran memorisation centres, Dr al Kaabi explained.
"Such stands serve as platforms that offer the opportunity for malls-goers from all walks of life to read about religion and other fields of knowledge," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Referring to the technology used at these sites, Dr al Kaabi said, "Awqaf was keenly interested in keeping pace with the contemporary age by making best use of the latest information technology methods at its stands. This includes providing iPad sets at each site through which people can learn about Awqaf's programmes, events and mechanism of work." Furthermore, TV screens will also be provided to display the promotional video clips that Awqaf produces occasionally, Dr al Kaabi noted.
Concerning the nature of the events, Dr al kaabi further explained that these will mainly involve the public in a contest with questions derived from the holy Quran with a view to promote the public's knowledge about Allah's Book.
"Information about Waqf will also be introduced during the contest with the aim of upholding the culture of Waqf within the community," Dr al Kaabi added, noting that such activities are conducive to facilitate communication and interaction between Awqaf and the members of the community. 
"This year, through its stands at the shopping malls, Awqaf set a model that combines both modernity and the Islamic culture. A picture of the Sheikh Zayed Mosque was set as a wall image for the whole site in an indication that the endowment work in the UAE begins and ends, in words and deeds, with the numerous types of Waqf that have been established by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
He then referred to the Waqf campaign for Quran memorisation centres that was launched at the beginning of Ramadan under the motto "Happiness with Quran recitation".
"We ensured providing donation coupons of AED 10 and 100 so as to allow participation of philanthropists of all age groups in such a substantial work that serves the interests of all segments of the community," Dr al Kaabi underlined, adding that Awqaf has also ensured to reach out to other initiatives sponsors and contributors in the society. 
It is worth mentioning that Awqaf has set up 15 stands in all the high footfall malls in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Ajman, Ras Al Khaimah and Fujairah. The events are scheduled to be organised in the emirate of Abu Dhabi at a number of malls, including Mushrif Mall, Marina Mall, Abu Dhabi Mall, Dalma Mall, Al Wahda Mall, Yas Mall, Bawabat Al Sharq Mall and Deerfields Mall as well as at Airport.
 













