addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
Frist Sermon
 All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He made the Night of Decree a source of plentiful rewards for us. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. The Ultimate Sovereign, the Ultimate Truth, the Manifest. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He is the example for those who prostrate themselves before their Lord. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. 
As to what follows,
 I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him Allah for obedience is the fruitful conclusion of Fasting the days of Ramadan. The Most Exalted says, "indeed, for the righteous with their Lord are the Gardens of Pleasure." (Al-Qalam: 34).
O Observers of Fasting,
These days of Ramadan that we are witnessing are amongst the most blessed ones in the holy month, the days of forgiveness and mercy. In them falls the Night of Decree, a night that is better than a thousand months. In His Book, Allah has elevated its status saying, "indeed, We sent the Quran down during the Night of Decree. And what can make you know what is the Night of Decree? The Night of Decree is better than a thousand months." (Al-Qadr: 1-3).
Truly, the Night of Decree is an honoured night. At this blessed night, doing good and performing Qiyam (night prayer) is better than that of a thousand months. That is, it is better than over eighty three years. Allah raised its status because He chose it as a time for sending down the holy Quran. The Almighty says, "indeed, We sent it down during a blessed night. Indeed, We were to warn [mankind]. On that night is made distinct every precise matter." (Ad-Dukhan: 3-4).
The Most Exalted attributed to this sacred night many merits. In it, He grants multiple rewards to His servants for every act of worship. It was narrated that Al Hasan Al Basri said, "In that night is made distinct every precise matter. In it, Allah, the Almighty decrees people's lots and provisions for the next year."
Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, also said that in this night all of the occurrences of the year, including birth, death, provision, and rain are to be recorded with Allah.
It was also reported that the Night of Decree was given this name because in it Allah, the Most High, sent down an honoured Book to an honoured Prophet from amongst an honoured nation.
The Night of Decree is a night that is celebrated in the Heavens and on earth too. In it, the blessings and bounties flow limitlessly. The Exalted is He says, "the angels and the Spirit descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter." (Al-Qadr: 4). That is, the angels descend from each Heaven and from Sudrat al Muntaha (Lote tree that marks the end of the seventh heaven). They come down to earth to say Amin following people's supplications and prayers until dawn sits in. 
Indeed, in this night, Allah, the Almighty, sends numerous number of angels down to earth along with His blessings and mercy. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "In that night, the number of angels who descend to earth is more than the number of stones on it."
Therein, they exchange the greeting of peace amongst themselves and with the believers. Allah, the Almighty made this night as the night of tranquillity, goodness and peace for He says, "peace it is until the emergence of dawn." (Al-Qadr: 5).
O Worshipers, 
The Night of Decree is a blessed night that begins with the call for Maghrib prayer and ends when the dawn emerges. Our Master Muhammad pbuh valued highly this night. In it, he used to strive hard in acts of worship and obedience more than in any other times hoping to attain its virtues and goodness. He also urged his companions to spend it in prayer and illustrated to them the virtues of doing so, saying, "Whoever spends the night of Laylat Al Qadr in prayer out of faith and in the hope of reward from Allah, he will be forgiven his previous sins."
Amongst the other traditions of the Prophet pbuh during this blessed night was reviving it with sincere supplications and humbly imploring to Allah. It was reported that the Mother of Believer, Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said: "I asked: 'O Messenger of Allah! If I realise Laylat Al Qadr, what should I supplicate in it?' He pbuh replied, 'you should supplicate: O Allah, You are the Most Forgiving, and You love forgiveness; so forgive me." 
Truly, this is the best of supplications that one may perform in this sacred night. Here, forgiveness means pardoning others' misdeed and averting from blaming them. Indeed, Allah is the Most Forgiving and is over all things competent. He forgives with His Supreme Power, which the extremely perfect type of forgiveness.   
O Observers of Fasting,
Please know that a night with such a highly elevated status is an opportunity for each Muslim to exert himself in seizing its merits and winning its rewards. This can be possible by engaging further in acts of goodness, making them the sap of the holy month of Ramadan. As such, one should show his righteousness to his Lord through striving in acts of worship. He should draw closer to Him by remembering Him much and being grateful to His bounties by thanking Him and giving as much for charity as possible.
This can also be achieved by reciting Quran and being diligent in observing prayers in congregation. Saeed Ibn Al Musayyab, may Allah be pleased with him, said in this regard, "Whoever offers the Isha prayer in congregation in Laylat al Qadr has taken his portion from it."
On another level, whoever performs Taraweeh fully in congregation till the Imam has finished, he will, by Allah's favour, attain the reward of standing for prayer for a whole night. Indeed, the best of acts through which one can seize the virtues of this holy night is offering prayer before the dawn emerges. Therein, one will be standing, prostrating and submissively supplicating to Allah. This way, one will grab the virtues of the two sacred times: the late hours of the night and Laylat al Qadr. Truly, at these times one can, by Allah's Grace, see his supplications answered, for Allah enjoins upon us to supplicate to Him and bestows on us the favour of responding to our calls. The Almighty says, "call upon Me; I will respond to you." (Ghafir: 60).
 
With this in mind, we beseech Allah to guide us to seize the merits of the Night of Decree and grant us in it forgiveness and rewards. O Allah, may we also implore to You to accept our fasting, Qiyam and righteous deeds.
O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Servants of Allah that you are asked to obey Allah, be steadfast on obeying Him and seek His satisfaction. This can be achieved by engaging further during these blessed days in acts of worship and charity, especially Zakat Al Fitr.
The Messenger of Allah pbuh enjoined Zakat Al Fitr and ordered every Muslim, male and female, who has provision for his day to pay it on his behalf and on behalf of his dependents. Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said in this regard, "the Messenger of Allah pbuh enjoined Zakat Al Fitr on the one who fasts (during the month of Ramadan) to purify him from any indecent act or speech and for the purpose of providing food for the needy. It is accepted as Zakat for the person who pays it before the Eid prayer and it is Sadaqah (voluntary charity) for the person who pays it after the Eid prayer."
Zakat Al Fitr's measure is approximately two Kilograms of the main staple food in the community. It can also be paid out in cash and it is evaluated in UAE at 20 Dirhams per person. The Muslim must offer it before Eid prayer.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to grant us success to stand for prayer in Layalt Al Qadr out of sincere faith and hoping for Your reward. O Allah, You are the most Forgiving and Compassionate, and You love forgiveness; so forgive us, O Lord of the Worlds. 
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah accept from all those who pay Zakat, compensate for them and bless their provisions.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
---------------------------------------
 
Plea from Awqaf 
To be delivered after Friday prayer 1/7/2016
 
O Servants of Allah,
 
Using firecrackers during Eid days has potential dangers on people. Fireworks can cause serious harm and inconvenience to them. Thus, it is the duty of parents to promote their children's awareness of the dangerous risks of using these explosive items.
 
That is said, we beseech Allah to confer His blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh.
 
 
 













