addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
First Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil-Hamd  (Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, there is no deity save Allah, Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, to Allah all praise is due.)
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar as many times as people merrily remembered His Name and devotedly all the Creation praised His Favours.
All praise is due to Allah. We praise Him as befitting to His Sublime status and Supreme Dominance.  The Almighty says, "our Lord, indeed we have heard a caller calling to faith, [saying], 'Believe in your Lord,' and we have believed. Our Lord, so forgive us our sins and remove from us our misdeeds and cause us to die with the righteous." (Al Imran: 193). 
Glorified be You, O Allah! You have granted us the seasons of blessings. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him belongs Dominion. We praise Him as many times as whatever in the earth and heavens pays tribute to Him. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He is the Prophet of mercy, happiness and peace. He is also the Messenger of forbearance, tolerance and harmony. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with His orders: "those who believed and were fearing Allah. For them are good tidings in the worldly life and in the Hereafter. No change is there in the words of Allah. That is what the great attainment is." (Yunus: 63-64).
O Worshipers, 
It such a beautiful morning we are cherishing today, the beginning of Eid and the beacon of happiness. Indeed, amongst the countless favours that Allah, the Almighty, bestowed upon us is that He rendered Eid for us an opportunity for promoting love and peace. Peace is one of the greatest objectives of Islam. Thus, we pray to Allah to make the real meaning of Eid realised on ground by prevailing peace at every corner of the world.
Peace is one of the sublime names that Allah has attributed to Himself as He says, "He is Allah, other than whom there is no deity, the Sovereign, the Pure, the Grantor of Peace." (Al-Hashr: 23).  He also describes Paradise as the home of peace saying, "for them will be the Home of Peace with their Lord." (Al-Anaam: 127). In Paradise, the greetings amongst its dwellers is peace. The Exalted is He says, "and their greeting therein will be, 'Peace'." (Yunus: 10). The angels therein will greet them saying, "peace be upon you for what you patiently endured. And excellent is the final home." (Ar-Raad: 24).
Furthermore, as an evidence of the great status of peace, Allah has made it as His greeting to the people of Paradise. The Almighty says, "their greeting the Day they meet Him will be, 'Peace'."
Peace is safety and tranquillity which are the tents of happiness for mankind. Truly, it is with peace, forbearance and stability that nations have been built and civilisations prospered.
Thus, we would like to seize this opportunity and highlight to all those with understanding around the world that our Eid is a festival of peace. With it, all the values of civilised co-existence and humanitarian harmony are deeply rooted. The Lord of the Worlds enjoined Muslims to adopt such values and disseminate them amongst the communities and nations.
Indeed, the holy month of Ramadan is a school where these values are nurtured. In Ramadan falls the Night of Decree which is a sacred night for all Muslims. This is because, at that night, the angels descend to earth carrying with them one of the most important blessings that they cherish, which is peace. 
It is, therefore, such a great thing that all people seek to build the home of peace and establish a community of peace. Truly, Allah, the Almighty, gives such a gracious decree to His Messenger pbuh when He says, "and when those come to you who believe in Our verses, say, 'Peace be upon you. Your Lord has decreed upon Himself mercy: that any of you who does wrong out of ignorance and then repents after that and corrects himself - indeed, He is Forgiving and Merciful'." 
It is, in fact, the right time for all those of wisdom around the world to join efforts in order to put an end to the chaos and strife that the world is suffering from, especially when we are living in the 21st century. It is right time for mankind to learn how to produce peace and cherish the happiness that it spreads around. Peace is one of Islam's principles that Allah calls for. The Almighty says, "and Allah invites to the Home of Peace." (Yunus: 25).
In was narrated that a man said to the Prophet pbuh, "O Messenger of Allah pbuh! Tell me what Islam is." The Prophet pbuh replied, "Islam is that you submit your heart to Allah, and that all Muslims feel safe from your tongue and your hand."
Peace was the first thing that the Prophet of mercy pbuh advocated people to establish in Medina. He pbuh said, "O people, exchange greetings of peace." By spreading peace, love and harmony will also prevail and, ultimately, true faith will be achieved. This was emphasised by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "You will not enter Paradise until you believe, and you will not (truly) believe until you love one another. Shall I tell you of something which, if you do it, you will love one another? Spread the greetings of peace amongst yourselves."
On the same matter, it was narrated that a man asked the Prophet pbuh, "What Islamic traits are the best?" The Prophet said, "Feed the people, and greet those whom you know and those whom you do not know."
Truly, such qualities are amongst the causes of attaining Allah's forgiveness as evidenced in this Hadith, "When the believer meets a fellow believer and he greets him with peace and shakes hands with him, their sins will fall like the leaves of a tree do."
It is with such a peaceful spirit that Islam seeks all people to co-exist on this earth. It urges for social peace, peaceful co-existence amongst individuals, communities and countries. This was further stressed by the Prophet pbuh when he gave a better rank for the Muslim who starts with greeting his brother Muslim, saying, "the better of the two will be the one who greets the other first."
This is because peace is key for compassion, harmony, tolerance and tranquillity. It, ultimately, brings about advancement and welfare.
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil-Hamd. 
O People of Islam and Peace, 
The traditions of Eid are amongst the greatest evidences that Islam gives utmost care to spreading social peace. This can be seen through the greetings (of peace) that are spread around and hands shaking when people visit one other to exchange Eid greetings. It is also reflected in showing obedience to parents, maintaining ties of kinship, being kind to relatives and showing sympathy with widows.
Of course, because our Eid is a festival of peace and our Islam is the religion of peace. So, congratulations to you on your Eid in the homeland of peace.
With this in mind, let us thank Allah for His gracious bounties upon us. Let us also pray to Him, the Most Exalted, to be pleased with us, accept from us our good deeds and forgive us our past and future sins.
O Allah, May we ask you to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil-Hamd.
I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, 
Please be aware, dear worshipers, that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah and know that the Most Exalted has granted us in the UAE the blessings of stability, prosperity, tranquillity and peace.
Amongst the other bounties bestowed by Allah upon us in our beloved country is the parental relationship between the rulers and the people. Our rulers strive to ensure providing decent life to their people. As such, our country is cherishing prosperity while the people's hearts are touched with happiness, rendering all our days seasons of celebrations.
Let us, then, show our gratitude to Allah by praising Him for His generous giving. Indeed, with appreciation Allah will continue to bless us with His favours as He says, "and [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, 'if you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favour].'" (Ibrahim: 7).
Let us also beseech Allah, the Almighty, to increase His blessings upon us and do not withhold His provision from us. May Allah also bless for us our provisions.
O Allah, we implore to You to accept our good deeds, raise our ranks by degrees and bless us with Your forgiveness, satisfaction and kindness, O the Most Kind and the Bestower of favours.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh, his family, companions and those who follow him for the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of his companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to make us witness Eid for many years to come. O Allah, please make Eid a witness on our favour and not against us.  May the Lord of the Worlds accept our good deeds and make us amongst the winners of His Paradise.
 
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we implore to You to render this Eid for us a source of peace and safety and return it to us with welfare and blessings. May Allah accept our work and make us amongst those who are grateful to You in this world and the winners of Your Grace at the Day of Judgment. O Allah, please make Paradise our perpetual dwelling.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah accept from all those who pay Zakat, compensate for them and bless their provisions.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
 
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Servants of Allah, Please stand up for Salat and may Allah forgive your misdeeds and purify you.
 
 
 













