addthis_pub="newawqaf";















During the third episode of "Ahl Al Khair" programme, which is dedicated during Ramadan to support the Waqf Campaign for Quran memorisation centres titled "Happiness with Quran Recitation", the Abu Dhabi Quran Radio station launched last Tuesday, the "1000 Donors Daily" initiative.
Participation in the campaign is done through SMS. Awqaf provided two numbers for donations, '9010' for those who wish to donate AED 10 and '9100' for AED 100. It also announced the availability of land locations ready for construction. The constructed centres will carry the names of the donors who contribute with the cost of construction.
The episode, which was moderated by Mr. Abdul Rahman al Tuneiji, Director of the Quran radio station, addressed the merits that parents would cherish by encouraging their children to memorise the holy Quran and the rewards that the memorisers would attain, by Allah's Grace, at the Day of Judgment.
Speakers in the episode included HE Khaled Mohammed Saif al Neyadi, Awqaf's Executive Director for Waqf Affairs and Dr Fareeda Mohammed Ali Boodi, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Criticism at the Faculty of Islamic and Arabic Studies, Al Azhar University in Egypt.
Dr Boodi examined the ultimate goal of learning the Book of Allah and how individuals and competent authorities could harness capabilities for the best interest of religion through Quran learning. She cited evidences from the Quran and Sunna to support her points of discussion.
"Reflecting on the meanings of the holy Quran is amongst the best acts of worship that bring the believers closer to their Lord. Allah has placed in Quran everything relating to jurisprudence of Islamic rulings supported with examples, wisdom, admonitions, history and stories. There is nothing that the Quran left unaddressed and clarified," she underlined, explaining the signs of sending down the Quran in the holy month of Ramadan. Those include choosing the holy month for the worship of fasting, the revelation of Quran and the mission of the Prophet pbuh who was sent to enlighten people and guide them out of their darkness into enlightenment.
After that, Dr Boodi shed light on the great merits rejoiced by parents when they urge their children to learn and memorise Quran as well as the gracious status promised by Allah, the Almighty, for Quran memorisers at the Day of Judgment.
"The people of the Quran are the people of Allah and those who are closest to Him as emphasised by the Messenger of Allah pbuh. By memorizing the Quran, one will see his status raised to the rank of angels. In many places in the Quran and Sunna the great virtues of Quran memorisation were highlighted. The one who is devoted to the Quran will be told on the Day of Resurrection: 'Recite and ascend (in ranks) as you used to recite when you were in the world. Your rank will be at the last Ayah you recite,"' she further explained, adding that the parents of Quran memorisers will also see their ranks raised by Allah as an evidence of the high status of memorisers themselves.  
For his part, Mr al Neyadi examined the role played by Quran memorisation centres in serving the community, noting that more than 42000 students are studying at the Quran memorisation centres across the UAE. Those centres are characterised by unique curriculums and advanced information and teaching infrastructure, as well as the recruitment of highly qualified teachers. Several services are offered in them, including security, caretaking, cleaning and transportation, al Neyadi explained, highlighting further the qualities of the new memorisation centres that Awqaf seeks to construct through its campaign.
"Each of the new centres is designed to comprise 10 classes that will accommodate 250 male and female students. Each will also contain a prayer room, a nursery, attached administrative building and multi-purpose hall," Mr. al Neyadi elaborated. He added that Awqaf laid down teaching plans for Quran and its sciences in a way to suite all age groups. To that effect, overall of 9 books containing the Quran sciences were issued, including two books for the youngsters "Quran Buds", two books for the preliminary stage, three books for memorisation stage and two books for the licensing stage, he added.  
Concerning the construction of the new centres, al Neyadi said for those philanthropists who would like to donate for constructing new Quran memorisation centres, the endowment sector has plain land plots ready for this purpose. Those include 7 locations in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, the Western Region, Ajman, Umm Al Quwain, Ras Al Khaimah and Fujairah. He noted that plans are ready for constructing a 10-story Waqf building in Ajman of total cost of AED 40 million. The new constructed building will carry the name of the donor who will donate for its construction, he underlined.
"Awqaf intends to construct a new memorisation centre in each of the emirates. To that effect, contracts have been signed with the consultant and the contractor in Ajman, Ras al Khaimah and Fujairah. Execution works for two centres in Abu Dhabi and Al Ain have started. Meanwhile, execution contract for one centre in Umm Al Quwain will be awarded soon," al Neyadi underscored. 
 On another level, al Neydadi explained that Wqaf donation for the construction of the memorisation centres would only be used for construction. However, there is another type of cash Waqf in the form of donation that can be invested by the Waqf department in estates, stocks or any other legal channels, he added, noting that the proceeds of such investments would be allocated for managing and putting the Quran memorisation centres into service.
"Waqf sector has a documentary financial cycle for Waqf funds. Based on that, we use the Waqf funds in constructing commercial buildings or implementing commercial projects. The proceeds of such investments are used to finance the services of the centres. For instance, the construction of a 10-story Waqf building in Ajman will cost around AED 40 million and the location is ready for those who wish to donate for its construction," al Neyadi clarified.
He called on the private and public organisations, banking institutions and semi-government corporations to stand for their social responsibility by donating or engaging in Waqf partnerships with Awqaf in order to implement projects that can be invested in funding Waqf project such as Quran memorisation centres.
On the same level, the program contacted a number of those Quran tutors and leading staff who originally studied at the Quran memorisation centres. Ms. Hanadi al Shamsi, Supervisor of Al Hail Centre in Al Ain said that she has joined the Quran memorisation centre more than 13 years back, highlighting the high level she achieved in learning Quran, worships and good conduct. She further stressed that by being devoted to the holy Quran, she has been cherishing success in all her life matter.
Another participation was brought by Ms. Moza al Zaabi, Director of Abu Dhabi Quran memorisation Centre. "Late sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, grew the early seeds of the Quran memorisation centres. Those centres play significant role in nurturing the generations and, thus, we need to establish one in each area across the country," she explained, stressing the importance of donating to the campaign and supporting the Quranic centres in view of the remarkable increase in the number of students joining them.
 













