addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Possessor of Glory and Honour. He ordains us to speak in kindness and use the best of words. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him ascends good speech, and righteous work raises it. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (An-Nahl: 128).
O Worshipers,
Allah, the Most Exalted enjoins us to choose from the speech the best of it as evidenced in this Aya, "and speak to people good [words]." (Al-Baqara: 83). That is, speak to them in kindness. Our Master Muhammad pbuh further emphasised the need to adopt a lenient and gentle approach when talking to one another at all times. He also linked such behaviour to the true belief in Allah, the Almighty, and the Day of Resurrection. He pbuh said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk what is good or keep quiet."
Thus, we should be sensible and think about what we say and the possible consequences of our words before we go ahead and speak. To this effect, one should choose the speech that is beneficial and more likeable to others or else, it is safer to remain silent.
In this context, amongst the many social occasions in which good words are urged is when talking to one's parents. About them, Allah, the Most Gracious says, "but speak to them a noble word." (Al-Israa: 23). That is, be lenient with, gentle and kind to them and show absolute respect, honouring and humility when dealing with them.
Another instance in which one should resort to good and pleasing speech, is when visiting a sick person, following in this the advice of our noble Prophet pbuh as he said, "when you visit a sick person, then speak only what is good, for the angels say 'Ameen' to whatever you will say."
In this Hadith the Prophet pbuh urges Muslims to speak reassuring words when visiting a sick person. This includes supplicating to Allah for them and asking Him to endow His mercy on them and ease their pain. This way, the visitor will, by Allah's favour, win His rewards and the patient cherish tranquillity and peace of mind, being hopeful of sooner healing.
On another level, the way a Muslim relates to others is also important when trying to mend the relationship between people. In such case, one should only say that which is good and may lead to resolving the issue in hand, and thereby bringing peace of mind and soul to those in dispute.
Taking guidance of the Prophet's pbuh command: "let him speak good words," is conducive to strengthen the true believer's sense of responsibility that they would be in continuous state of consciousness of Allah, the Almighty, in all that they say. As such, one would only say that which is good and beneficial to others. In return, the doorways of goodness will, by Allah's grace, be opened to them and their provisions of good deeds will increase. This is because speaking in good is amongst the best acts of charity as emphasised by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "A good word is charity".
Dear Muslims,
Please know that the degree of importance attributed to speech is dependent on the standing of the one who says it. For instance, what scholars say has great influence on others because they are regarded as example for them. Thus, it is a duty incumbent on them to highlight all that is good and beneficial and to promote it amongst people.
On another instance, Friday speeches also carry the meanings of goodness and righteousness as these are intended to remind people of the great teachings and principles of Islam.
Teachers, on the other hand, carry a responsibility of instructing their students to be good in words and in deeds, being in this their example in the community. Moreover, a man in his daily communication with his family should also ensure choosing the best and most kind words.
Indeed, he is successful who is able to be responsible for whatever he says and work in accordance with the best of his speech. By so doing, one will close the gateways in the face of Satan and ruin his evil plans that are aimed at spreading disparity amongst people. Allah, the Almighty, says, "and tell My servants to say that which is best. Indeed, Satan induces [dissension] amongst them. Indeed Satan is ever, to mankind, a clear enemy." (Al-Israa: 53).   
O Believers,
This leads us to advise each other about the dangerous impact of the words of mouth. Truly, whoever recognises the tremendous impact that words can bring, would definitely hold his tongue and reflect on whatever he says. As such, one should not accuse people without knowledge, nor should they indulge in gossips or in taunting others. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "A true believer does not taunt or curse or abuse or talk indecently."
Taunting is insulting people in intention to demoralise them and suspect their integrity. Those who commit such act will be accountable towards Allah on the Day of Judgment for their bad words and accusations. Truly, on the Day of Resurrection, people's words will either testify for or against them for Allah, the Almighty, says, "their testimony will be recorded, and they will be questioned." (Al-Zukhruf: 19).
He has succeeded, therefore, who meets his Lord at the Day of Judgment with sufficient provision of goodness in his sayings and deeds. Indeed, good words are key element to bringing about plentiful great benefits. They are means for solving problems, ending enmities, spreading peace, strengthening bonds and love amongst people and fostering harmony in the community. Ultimately, the speakers of good will attain a great attainment as promised by Allah, the Most Exalted in this Aya, "O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment." (Al-Ahzab: 70-71).
Allah, the Almighty, orders the believers to speak beneficial words for which they will be rewarded with guidance to the righteous deeds and forgiveness, and thereby they will win Paradise as their perpetual dwelling. Our Master Muhammad pbuh, further said in this regard, "Indeed in Paradise there are chambers, whose outside can be seen from their inside, and their inside can be seen from their outside." A Bedouin stood and said, "Who are they for, O Messenger of Allah?" He said, "For those who speak well and feed others." That is, for those who address people gently and with kindness and avoid insulting them in any way.
With this in mind, we implore to Allah the Almighty to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Servants of Allah, that you are asked are asked to obey Him, the Most Gracious, and know that it is a duty incumbent on all of us to nurture good conducts in the minds and hearts of our children. To this effect, we should teach them to choose the best of words when talking with relatives, friends, neighbours or the members of the community.
We need to teach them the golden rule of either to say beneficial words or be a winner by keeping quiet. Indeed, whoever controls the words of their mouth and thinks carefully before speaking will, really, be successful.
We need to also advise our children to verify the truth of every statement or news they hear and avoid spreading them with no proper knowledge. On this account, it was narrated that Muadh ibn Jabal, may Allah be pleased with him, asked the Prophet pbuh, "O Messenger of Allah, will we be taken to account for what we say?" He pbuh said, "May your mother be bereaved of you, O Muadh! Is there anything that throws people into the Hellfire upon their faces - or: on their noses - except the harvests of their tongues? You will be safe as long as you remain silent. Yet, when you speak, your words will either be recorded against you or for your favour."
Here, the harvest of tongues means the rewards that one reaps as a result of his good statements or the punishment that his bad ones bring to him. Indeed, one's words and deeds are the seeds that one sow and then reap their fruits on the Day of Resurrection. So, whoever sows good seeds will be a winner, and those who sow bad seeds will be losers.
Glad tidings, then, for those who adopt such approach and teach their children to follow in their steps.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek you favour to make us amongst those who speak in kindness, say all that is good and work according to it, and thus be beneficial to themselves, their community and homeland.
O Lord of the Worlds, we beseech You to be pleased with us and guide us to that which avail Your satisfaction.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah accept from all those who pay Zakat, compensate for them and bless their provisions.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
 
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













