addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stated that the Awqaf's Pilgrims Affairs offices and the UAE's pilgrims' camps have been furnished with e-gates, noting that the e-cards necessary for passing through these gates into and out of camps will soon be issued for all pilgrims. 
Dr al Kaabi's announcement came in a statement to Al Ittihad newspaper, in which he said, "Awqaf continuously coordinates with the competent authorities in Saudi Arabia in order to elevate the level of services intended for the UAE pilgrims in an effort to touch their hearts with happiness and facilitate the performance of Hajj rituals for them."
To this effect, Awqaf signed a contract with a highly qualified engineering and services company in order to set up the camps in accordance with the highest standards in terms of ventilation and air-conditioning, Dr al Kaabi added, noting that top quality split unit A/C systems will be installed in all the tents.
On another level, Dr al Kaabi underlined that the UAE official Hajj mission ensured providing sufficient number of washrooms, ablution corners and prayer rooms for pilgrims. The number is being increased whenever necessary in an ongoing efforts to improve the quality of such services year-on-year, he clarified.
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that 13 committees were formed to offer services to pilgrims. Such committees are equipped with specialised and competent members so as to deliver instant services round the clock. The committees ensure providing support for pilgrims throughout the entire Hajj stages, starting from the preparation for travel, during the performance of Hajj rites and till coming back to the UAE, he added.
Special care is also given to women camps as these are supported with special committees and service teams. This is to ensure that women are absolutely comfortable while providing them with services such as preaching, medication and supplies, among others, Dr al Kaabi underscored.
"As part of its mission, Awqaf strives to bring happiness to members of the community, make their affairs easy and achieve excellence in the services offered to them. The ultimate goal is to attain satisfaction of Allah, the Almighty, and translate the instructions of the UAE wise leaders to harness all capabilities to offer pilgrims the highest level of services," Dr al added.
"In line with their keen interest in achieving the highest level of safety and security to their people, citizens and residents, inside and outside the country, the UAE's prudent leaders give utmost care to the safety of pilgrims during Hajj season," Dr al Kaabi affirmed, explaining that the large number of UAE pilgrims imposes bigger responsibilities on the concerned entities.
Therefore, Dr al Kaabi explained, the competent authorities in Saudi Arabia and the UAE Hujjaj Affairs' Office exercise extreme caution round the clock. To this effect, the Hujjaj Affairs' Office comprise several committees from the Ministry of Interior, scouts and media outlets, in addition to the comprehensive safety and emergency plans that have been prepared. Such arrangements are supported with a daily follow-up to the pilgrims' affairs by the UAE wise leaders, Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
Concerning the procedures and regulations related to pilgrims, Dr al Kaabi said that mainly pilgrims should take the compulsory vaccinations and undergo the necessary medical checks at the ministry of health before heading to Hajj. Other requirements pertaining to residents include possessing passports valid for at least 6 months. The same applies for their residency permits, he added. 
Elaborating on the process, Dr al Kaabi explained that such information should then be entered into the Awqaf's electronic system. In turn, Awqaf will feed the data into the electronic system of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Following that, Hajj permits will be issued to citizens while residents will obtain the Hajj visa.
Amongst other important regulations, Dr al Kaabi stressed the need for each pilgrim to sign a contract with the Hajj operator of their choice. Those contracts cover air tickets in addition to transportation, accommodation and supplies in the holy sites, Dr al Kaabi added.
He also underscored that Awqaf will conduct workshops and religious, medical and instructional lectures via various media outlets. Such workshops and lectures will start at the beginning of Dhul Qaada and are aimed at promoting pilgrims' awareness about Hajj affairs and safety procedures before heading to the holy sites.
 
Preparatory mission
Concerning the preparatory mission, Dr al Kaabi said it leaves to the holy sites early enough ahead of pilgrims, adding that it will receive the locations allocated for the UAE pilgrims, set up the camps and furnish them with all services necessary for the pilgrims and the mission.
As for the medical services, including clinics, pharmacies, physicians, nursing teams, medicine and medical devices, Dr al Kaabi stressed that since the era of the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed, the UAE leaders attributed unique care to Hujjaj affairs and their medical services.
In this context, Dr al Kaabi extended thanks to HE Abdul Rahman bin Mohammed al Owais, the Minister of Health and Prevention, for ensuring that all the medical services necessary for the UAE pilgrims are delivered free of charge and in accordance with the highest standards in this domain. Such services are offered at all Hujjaj Affairs' offices in Mecca, Medina, Mina and Arafat as well as at all Hajj campaigns' premises across the UAE, Dr al Kaabi concluded. 
 













