addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has discussed the support system for mosque management and laying down a plan for an advanced electronic system that could be updated regularly.
The discussions came during an expanded workshop headed by Dr Mohammed Mater al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, and attended by all Awqaf's executive directors, department managers and managers of all branches across the UAE.
The system would integrate information about all mosque employees in addition to information pertaining to each mosque including location, date of construction, assets, systems, date of maintenance, preaching lessons, lectures and lecturers.
The workshop also discussed Friday sermons, Khateebs' qualifications as well as evaluation of Khutbas' topics and ideas in a way to keep pace with the present requirements and future aspirations. It addressed as well the evaluation of Khateebs' performance so as to provide training courses to those who need further qualification. The courses would cover Arabic language, quality of performance, presentation and enriching Khateebs' religious and worldly knowledge. The evaluation process would also include Quran tutors, administrators, Quran memorisation centres and the Imam al Jamai initiative that oversees a number of mosques.
On the occasion, Dr al Kaabi said that thanks to the unremitting support by the UAE wise leadership to Awqaf's plans and its mission in promoting religious awareness, developing mosques and Quranic centres, producing religious Fatwas, managing Hajj and Umrah, Awqaf succeeded in crafting innovative smart systems for the happiness of the community. This helped positioning Awqaf as a global Islamic reference in terms of developing religious discourse and mosques as well as preparing qualified scientific, religious, technical and administrative cadres, he added.
Dr al Kaabi shed light as well on the importance of fitting mosques at airports, hospitals, shopping malls and labour camps with all necessary facilities.
"The Imam al Jamai initiative has proved unique success over the last one year. This has been unanimously testified by those overseeing the initiative," Dr al Kaabi further noted.
For their part, the attendees expressed their appreciation to the development and initiatives that has been achieved by the Quran memorisation centres, underlining the advanced level achieved by the educational initiative in the Quran memorisation centres under the motto: "Ya Jibal Oubi" (O mountains, praise Allah).  Through learning the correct way of Tajweed, the initiative succeeded in developing students' skills and improving the public's satisfaction, they underscored.
During the workshop, the participants were also briefed by the Awqaf's engineering department on the developments achieved in the construction of the model memorisation centres in each of the emirates, Imams' accommodation attached to mosques and the new Awqaf branches with unified designs.
Concerning the flexible working hours, the workshop clarified that the system earned employees' satisfaction, which reflected in high performance and increased achievements.
 













