addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
 First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He promises those who are patient an ample recompense. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful." (Al Imran: 200).
Dear Muslims,
Patience is a key element to achieving success in all one's affairs. It is one of man's most gracious qualities that Allah, the Almighty urges for in His saying, "but if you are patient - it is better for those who are patient." (An-Nahl: 126).
Our Master Muhammad pbuh further attributed a high status to patience as one of the best gifts granted by Allah, the Most Exalted. He pbuh said, "Nobody can be given a blessing better and greater than patience."
Furthermore, as a sign of the lofty standing of perseverance, Allah, the Most Exalted promised rewards without measure to those who exercise patience. He says, "indeed, the patient will be given their reward without account." (Az-Zumar: 10).
Indeed, to Allah belongs the best names, and one of them is "The Patient", about which the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "None is more patient than Allah against the harmful and annoying words He hears (from the people): they associate rivals with him, they ascribe children to Him, yet He bestows upon them health and provisions."
Moreover, the virtue of patience is one merit of the true believers and doers of good whom Allah, the Most Merciful, praises in this Aya, "indeed, he who fears Allah and is patient, then indeed, Allah does not allow to be lost the reward of those who do good." (Yusuf: 90).
Indeed, endurance is of great help to the believers. One can find in it the relief that can be achieved by observing the worship of prayer. Such importance is evidenced in this Aya in which the Almighty says, "and seek help through patience and prayer." (Al-Baqara: 45).
Truly, patience is amongst the greatest qualities and the best behaviours. It was amongst the merits of the Prophets pbut. They exercised patience and set unique examples of endurance. For this reason, Allah, the All-High attributed to them high standing and praised them. He says, "and We made from among them leaders guiding by Our command when they were patient and [when] they were certain of Our signs." (As-Sajda: 24).
In many places in the Quran, Allah tells us stories about their patience. For instance, here is an Aya in which Yaaqoub (Jacob) puh endures patiently the loss of his two sons Yusuf and his brother, peace be upon them, and says, "so patience is most fitting. Perhaps Allah will bring them to me all together." (Yusuf: 83).
In another Aya, Allah, the Almighty orders our Master Muhammad pbuh to take example of the Prophets who came before him and show forbearance towards his people. The Most Exalted says, "so be patient, [O Muhammad], as were those of determination among the messengers and do not be impatient for them." (Al-Ahqaf: 35).
Following Allah's ordains, the Prophet pbuh set an example for perseverance and patiently endured the hardships and the harm he suffered from the unbelievers. Describing such hardships that he endured, he pbuh said, "I have been tortured for the sake of Allah as no one else has, and I have suffered fear for the sake of Allah as no one else has. I have spent three days when Bilal and I had no food that any living being could eat but that which could be concealed under the armpit of Bilal."
O Servants of Allah,
There are many reasons for one to be persistent and show fortitude. Indeed, patience is the way towards attaining accomplishments and developing one's homeland. We need perseverance in all our endeavours in order to achieve success. Students, for example, need it to thrive, employees to excel, the sick people to endure their illness and pain and those in hardship would need to endure patiently so that they may get relieved. In like manner, parents also need to be patient as they raise their children, the wife should show patience towards her husband, the managers with their subordinates, the teachers with their students and the students in their endeavours.
In fact, people from all walks of life should exercise patience while managing their worldly affairs. This is because patience is a practical approach and way of life which brings all the goodness to people as illustrated by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "How wonderful is the case of a believer; there is good for him in everything and this applies only to a believer. If prosperity attends him, he shows gratitude to Allah and that is good for him; and if adversity befalls him, he endures it patiently and that is better for him."
O People of Patience,
Please know that perseverance is an acquired quality that comes through practice. Thus, each one of us can develop it and get accustomed to it so as to attain Allah's mercy and support. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "And whoever remains patient, Allah will make him patient." That is: whoever persistently trains himself to be patient then Allah will bless him with the gift of patience so that it becomes part of his character.
As a matter of fact, difficulties are part of the human life. Yet, through patience and tolerance and by not being in haste one can overcome such difficulties. The words of wisdom say, "Deliberation is safety and haste makes waste." Indeed, many of those who tend to lose their patience will in turn lose that which is good for them and fall in troubles that might bring them undesirable consequences. A poet said in this regard, "through patience one will achieve at least one goal, yet by being impatient in sins one might fall."
Truly, those who excel and attain high standing would not have achieved such success have they not been patient, persistent and hardworking. It is only with such characteristics one can achieve his goals. One of the righteous scholars said in this regard, "No prophet or any other person have ever attained the great goodness except through patience."
O Servants of Allah,
This is also a good opportunity to advise one another on when to be patient. One should show patience when dealing with others in daily life matters. This is because dealing with others requires one to be kind, calm and know how to control his reactions. Likewise, one needs to exercise tolerance when implementing the law, adhering to the rules, while waiting in a queue or showing respect for others' rights.
Other occasions that necessitates endurance is upon fulfilling our duties and during other moments when one goes through a state that puts one's tolerance and patience under trial. In such circumstances, those who endure patiently will, by Allah's favour, be rewarded in abundance. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "And know that in the patience on what you hate there is a lot of good."
Thus, the true patient is he who is content with what Allah has decreed, never objects to it and only seeks help from Him.
With this in mind, we beseech Allah, the Almighty, to provide us with patience and contentment and grant us success in all our affairs.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Exalted, and know that the virtue of patience brings gracious rewards to the believers. Through endurance, one attains comfort of the soul and tranquillity of the heart. By being tolerant, one will win Allah's satisfaction and be close to people. Indeed, patience enlightens the believer's path and vision as well as helps in easing their hardship and alleviating their sorrows. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "and patience is light."
Therefore, as long as patience is a quality of the believer and tolerance is a way of life to him, his heart and mind will remain enlightened and will, by Allah's grace, be always guided on the correct path. This is because perseverance is the best means through which one can overcome difficulties, face misfortunes and achieve success.
For this reason, Allah has enjoined us to be patient at all times. It was narrated that Umar ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "We found the best of our living through patience."
Let us, then, think and decide whether or not we have developed the quality of patience so as to endure and tolerate the burdens and pressures of life and thereby deserve to attain the recompense granted to those who are patient. We should also diligently train ourselves to control our reactions and not to lose our patience.  
 
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh for the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
We beseech Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to beautify us with the quality of patience and adorn our souls with forbearance. O Allah, we implore to You to guide us to the beneficial knowledge.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Almighty.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













