addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf was awarded the ISO 27001 in Corporate Information Security Management systems. Awqaf's information technology Department has fulfilled all required conditions, procedures, and criteria to be awarded such Certificate. The IT Department also conducted a campaign throughout Awqaf targeting all staff in order to familiarise them with the significance of information security in carrying out their work.
Information security policies identifying the responsibilities of each and every individual have been published on several visual or email platforms. This endeavor is in line with Awqaf's keen interest in establishing and implementing an integrated information security system that protects all aspects of information use at all levels, including data storage and communication.
ISO 27001 is an internationally prominent certificate, the leading certification in information security management across the globe. Awqaf was certified by a committee of specialised and accredited experts after rigorous security testing and auditing against potential risks. Awqaf attained this certification through its design of an advanced system to avert and confront all potential risks and damages.
Several regulations were introduced to counter potential effects on data. HE Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf, stressed that the great support provided by the UAE wise leadership to advocate for Awqaf's mission has made it one of the pioneering government entities in the use of smart technology. This covers Awqaf's commitment to protecting its available information, securing its credibility, and increasing the confidence of interested stakeholders in its capacity as a significant mediator of information security with other organisations.
On the occasion, HE Dr al Kaabi said, "We would like to thank the Information Security Department team for their efforts and cooperation in attaining this Certificate. The awarding of ISO 27001 Certificate to Awqaf in Information Security Management systems shall boost confidence in the social services we provide by maintaining data and strengthening information security and our response to any potential risks. We have established a world-class security system in Awqaf to protect information in various organisational units. The effective application of ISO 27001 shall provide our senior management with the capacity to control and monitor information security, and minimise the danger of unlicensed entities losing, leaking, or even tampering with such data."
 













