addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He attributed a high status to learning and made it amongst the signs of obeying Him and a cause of winning His Paradise as an eternal dwelling. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best of those who taught and sought knowledge. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "and fear Allah . And Allah teaches you. And Allah is Knowing of all things." (Al-Baqara: 282).
O Believers,
By the coming Sunday, the new school year will, by Allah's favour, begin for all stages, starting from kindergarten till the high school. All students will go back to their classes seeking knowledge behind their studying desks.
On this occasion, please know that seeking knowledge is amongst the most noble goals that Allah, the Almighty, ordered us to achieve and urged us take as much provision of it as possible. The Most Exalted says, "and say, 'My Lord, increase me in knowledge.'" (Taha: 114). 
Because of the great importance of learning, the Messenger of Allah pbuh would start his day by supplicating to Allah, the Almighty, to grant him beneficial knowledge, saying, "O Allah! I ask You for beneficial knowledge."
In this context, a beneficial knowledge is the one that gives a person an opportunity for betterment and which they transfer to others for their benefit. Good knowledge reflects in a refined character, noble manners and straight behaviour. For this reason the Prophet pbuh urged people to seek beneficial knowledge. He said in this regard, "Ask Allah for beneficial knowledge."
Another sign of the importance of learning is that Allah, the Most Exalted, prescribed for it to be accepted and lasting as evidenced in this Aya, "but as for that which benefits the people, it remains on the earth." (Ar-Raad: 17). This is because the good impact of knowledge extends to all people and its benefits are everlasting.
In this sense, it is good to know what fields of knowledge are beneficial. Scholars said, "Knowledge is of two kinds: religious knowledge and worldly knowledge." Of these two kinds, the religious knowledge is most beneficial for the individual in this world and in the Hereafter. This was highlighted by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "If Allah wants to do good for somebody, He makes him comprehend the religion."
As far as worldly knowledge is concerned, medicine is one branch of science that gives the opportunity for people to take care of their health and protect their life. In like manner, other branches of worldly science are the cornerstone of any nation and the vital precursor to much of its progress and prosperity.
In fact any nation's high status and excellence are dependent on it taking on learning.  Such fields of knowledge include mathematics, physics, linguistics, chemistry, geometry, space, geology, biology, geography, social studies, energy and technology as well as any other areas of knowledge. Allah, the Almighty says, "say, 'are those who know equal to those who do not know?' Only they will remember [who are] people of understanding." (Az-Zumar: 9).
Dear Muslims,
Highlighting the great standing of knowledge, the Messenger of Allah pbuh used to encourage everyone seeking knowledge and promised them great rewards in return. He pbuh said, "He who treads the path in search of knowledge, Allah would make that path easy, leading to Paradise for him."
Glad tidings, then, for our students who receive the new academic year in a spirited and resilient way, carrying thereby their tasks on time without delay. This way they will be following the guidance of our Master Muhammad pbuh as he said, "O people! Seek knowledge. Indeed, knowledge is gained through learning."
This means, knowledge comes through learning and seeking it from the people of knowledge. Umar ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, said in this regard, "Acquire knowledge and teach it to people. Learn along with it dignity and tranquillity as well as humility for those who teach you."
Some scholars also said, "It is a duty upon knowledge-seekers to achieve their desired goal by expanding their perceptions."
Thus, it is such a precious opportunity that all students should seize through learning from their teachers while respecting their status and appreciating their efforts. Thus, they should pay due respect to their teachers, fulfil their rights, embrace good manners and noble qualities and strive in studying to make the new school year well. This way, they will show belonging to their country and loyalty to their leaders as their country has given them the best possible means to acquire knowledge.
Indeed, by embracing such merits, students will, by Allah's grace, achieve excellence, one of the greatest objectives of learning. In turn, they will win admiration and respect of all members of the community.
Moreover, Allah, the All-Knowing, raised by degrees the status of those who pursue learning and beneficial knowledge that they could use to better themselves and their community. The Almighty says, "Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al-Mujadila: 11). In fact, those are live examples for all students who would like to invoke the example the people of excellence.
O Worshipers,
As we are entering a new school year, it is a good occasion to highlight the eminent status of teachers and extend our sincere appreciation for the great role they play in the community. Truly, teaching is not just a job for earning living, it is rather a civilised mission which was also carried out by the Prophets and commenced by the Messenger pbut. Our Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Indeed, I have been sent as a teacher."
Teachers carry a noble message and a great trust, being building the generations so as to be open-minded, love their country and have confidence in their capabilities. Truly, teachers carry a great responsibility. Thus, they need to give good example to their students, expand their knowledge, nurture the value of innovation in their minds and motivate them for further achievements.
They also carry the duty of instilling in the youth the best values and conducts, following in this the model of the Prophet pbuh who was the best of teachers as described by on his companions, may Allah be pleased with them, saying, "I have never seen a teacher before him (Prophet pbuh) or after him better in teaching than he was."
From this perspective, for the teachers to fulfil their mission, they should be supported by parents who should always coordinate with them. Parents have thus a major responsibility over their children's education and welfare. Therefore, they need to provide their children with a good environment that is conducive for studying and excelling. Parents' duty calls also for guiding their children, monitoring their behaviour and watching over the peers with whom they interact.
With this in mind, we beseech Allah, the Almighty, to grant our children success in their learning endeavours and make their new school year one full of great achievements.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
 
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Gracious, and remember as we are entering a new academic year the great care that the UAE has given to education, racing with time to achieve scientific advancement. To this effect, it entered strongly in the field of space science, became the capital of sustainable clean energy and ensured maintaining the highest standards in modern learning throughout all its schools, universities and research centres.
Furthermore, embarking on the great value of knowledge, the UAE also supported innovation. Such endeavour is aimed at creating a generation that is exceptionally intelligent, creative and capable to lead the path of evolution in all fields and disciplines of knowledge.
To achieve such a noble goal, our beloved country spared no efforts to create inside schools the perfect possible environment that is conducive for education and acquiring knowledge. This is because schools have a distinctive role in monitoring students' educational performance and achievements.
It is, therefore, a duty incumbent upon parents to respect the efforts exerted by their children's school and keep good communication with its management representatives. They should also cooperate with traffic police in facilitating traffic flow in school areas. This can be achieved through abiding by the traffic rules, respecting road manners and maintaining order while students get on or off their school buses.
As we enter the new school year, it is really a good opportunity to urge students, teachers and parents to get ready for carrying out such a noble mission.
 
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
We seek the favour of Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to grant our children success and excellence in their studying endeavours. May Allah also grant success to teachers and help them in fulfilling their mission.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the noble Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
 
May Allah accept from all those who pay Zakat, compensate for them and bless their provisions.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













