addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
Awqaf's Holy Quran Memorisation Centres are set to receive 42 thousand Quran students from different age groups starting Sunday.
The Quranic Centres receive students of all ages and groups, from buds (kids) to elderly people and housewives. they are considered advanced educational beacons because of their distinguished curriculums, educational quality, information infrastructure, and facilities. Awqaf is keenly interested in raising the technical and academic levels for the teachers and choosing the best amongst them as well as providing multiple services that include security, supervision, cleaning, and transportation.
On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the Chairman of Awqaf, stated that the Holy Quran memorisation centres nationwide received substantial and continuous support since the era of the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah have mercy upon him, till this day. He underlined that the care and attention given to the Centres is inherited and maintained by their Highnesses the rulers of the UAE; making these Centres glimmering beacons that shine brighter and raise the level of their outstanding education with each passing day.  
Dr al Kaabi further stated that holy Quran memorisation centres execute a well-defined plan for teaching the curriculums such as providing study books in the different Holy Quran disciplines that accommodate every age group; including the Quran buds (two books), the preparatory level students (two books), the memorisation level students (three books) and the advanced level students (two books). This makes the number of books distributed to students from different age groups nine in total, all containing Holy Quran disciplines, he added, noting that Awqaf has developed the curriculums for all educational stages and provided all the books and references at the Centers administrations across the UAE, in addition to the transportation buses that Awqaf operates. 
"The holy Quran memorization centers nationwide and their advanced curriculums are a main pillar of our wise leadership's initiative to raise the upcoming generations on righteous morals and principles; and are also a crucial part of their religious, social and patriotic upbringing. The UAE emphasises these principles in its Quranic institutions," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
He revealed that this year, Awqaf is setting the Prophet Mohammed pbuh as an example for the Ijaza, as the generations have learned from him how to beautifully recite and memories the words of Allah the Almighty.
The curriculums were prepared in four languages; Arabic, English, Urdu and Malayalam. The aim is to provide an approach to enlighten the tutors in performing their tasks and duties. The editions took ease of use into consideration that their topics are all inclusive, stem from the Quran and Sunna and are appropriate for the level of the buds (kids). They are also supported by meaningful educational tools and expressive images inspired by the religious, cultural, national and civil culture of the society.
Moreover, the Centers are educational institutions that teach the Holy Quran and its disciplines, which in turn contribute in building individual characters on the basis of balance, moderation, tolerance and the deeply established values. This way, the generations will be nurtured to be beneficial for themselves, their families and community. The curriculums focus on the rules of Tajweed, worships, virtues, spelling, Motoon and the Ijaza with the relative evidence. 
 













