addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. We praise Him, the Most Exalted, as befitting for His Sublime status and Supreme Countenance. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his order: "O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with those who are true." (At-Tawba: 119).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that good conducts are one of the most important pillars for building civilisations. With good ethics communities become more coherent and stronger. This was illustrated by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "Indeed, I was sent to perfect good manners."
Good morals are the foundation of civilisations and with them nations develop. Indeed, the prosperity of a community is firmly linked to the civilised values embraced by its members and their adherence to them.
Allah, the Almighty, with His Wisdom has decreed that good deeds which are beneficial to people are the durable ones. He says, "as for the foam, it vanishes, [being] cast off; but as for that which benefits the people, it remains on the earth. Thus does Allah present examples." (Ar-Raad: 17).
Going deeper into the meaning of human civilised behaviour, it is the product of a person's noble characters which translate into an ideal way of speaking to and treating others. Those emanate from one's uppermost values and decent merits that respect the norms and traditions of their community and adhere to its laws and regulations. These would also be set according to certain standards that are laid down for the best interests of human beings in this world and in the Hereafter.
In this context, amongst of the finest manners are the good word of mouth and being kind when dealing with others. These are the same principles highlighted by our tolerant religion. Allah, the Almighty, says, "and speak to people good [words]." (Al-Baqara: 83). In the same regard, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Behave well towards people."
Furthermore, in His Book, Allah, the Most Exalted, highlighted the importance of treating others decently. He says, "and if you had been rude [in speech] and harsh in heart, they would have disbanded from about you." (Al-Imran: 159).
To this effect, if a person commits a mistake, he is urged to apologise using the best of words and the finest and most likable expressions. One should also express sincere thanks and gratitude to others for excusing him. In return, we are expected to pardon others and accept their apologies if they mistreat us. This is because the culture of tolerance and justifying others' flaws is conducive to nurture a culture of constructive dialogue amongst people, which ultimately would enhance harmony and good ties within the community.
Other key qualities that are urged in this sense include cooperation on goodness and righteousness, extending helping hand during hardships as well as joyful occasions. Allah, the Most High, urges us to embrace such noble value for He says, "and cooperate in righteousness and piety." (Al-Maaida: 2).   
Such cooperation is built on mercy, kindness and knowing one another. Allah, the Almighty says, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted." (Al-Hujurat: 13).
O Servants of Allah,
There are many types and traits for the civilised behaviour, which covers all aspects of man's life. For instance, good appearance, nice clothing and cleanliness are amongst the key civilised behaviours that were emphasised in the holy Quran. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "O children of Adam, take your adornment at every masjid." (Al-Aaraf: 31).
In like manner, the Prophet pbuh urged his companions, may Allah be pleased with them, to take good care of their appearance so as to be amongst the best looking people and set example to others.
On the other hand, the Messenger of Allah pbuh disapproved neglecting one's appearance. It was narrated that Jaber ibn Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "The Messenger of Allah pbuh paid visit to us, and saw a dishevelled man whose hair was disordered. He said, 'could this man not find something to put his hair in order?' He saw another man wearing dirty clothes and said, 'could this man not find something to wash his garments with?'"
On another level, one of the other good characters that the Messenger of Allah pbuh called for is respecting the road manners. He pbuh said, "Give the road its due right." Truly, honouring road manners represents a civilised behaviour that, in turn, embodies respect to the rights of road goers.
Abiding by the rules and regulations related to using the public areas has a great effect in highlighting polished and civilised conducts. More importantly, it is conducive to safeguard people's lives and keep them away from discomfort. As such, all those who use the public areas should embrace such civilised manners and be consistent on implementing them.
On another note, a civilised person would always seek to perfect his work and be committed to it. They would also strive to better themselves both in knowledge and skill. This way, one would deliver the best quality of work, innovate in their performance and ensure to make best use of their time as well as respect that of others by keeping appointments and fulfilling commitments. Allah, the Most Gracious, says, "and the covenant of Allah fulfill. This has He instructed you that you may remember." (Al-Anaam: 152).
This means Allah, the Almighty, instructs you to fulfil your promise and stressed on doing so that you may be guided. A covenant means a documented undertaking, while fulfilling the covenant means that a person does what one has promised to do. Indeed, honouring promises is a civilised and righteous behaviour that reflects sound thinking, strong character and respect to one's word of mouth.
Allah, the Most High, praised His Prophet Ismael puh for his honesty and commitment towards his promises. He says, "and mention in the Book, Ishmael. Indeed, he was true to his promise, and he was a messenger and a prophet." (Mariam: 54).
Furthermore, Allah, the Almighty, praises the people of understanding and wisdom as being committed to their word and fulfilling to their promises for He says, "they will only be reminded who are people of understanding, those who fulfil the covenant of Allah and do not break the contract." (Ar-Raad: 19-20).
O Worshipers,
Civilised behaviour is acquired from home and family. Naturally, children when born will be as clear as a white sheet of paper. The responsibility of filling such sheet lies with the parents who nurse them and nurture all good ethics into their minds and souls.
Parents are responsible for raising their children on good conducts and direct them to seek beneficial knowledge and high status. This is why parents are accountable towards Allah, the Most Gracious, for their kids on the Day of Judgment. Schools also carry equally important role in instilling the noble human values and behaviours in the minds and hearts of children. This is conducive to help the children in contributing to preserving their nation's civilisation and hone their skills and manners through positively interacting with others.
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to guide to the best of deeds and the most beautiful words.
We implore to Allah the Almighty to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Servants of Allah, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Glorious, as befitting to His Glorious Status, be steadfast on adhering to His orders, and know that civilised manners have a great positive impact on individuals. Through refined conducts one will, by Allah's grace, attain great provisions in this life and the next. Civilised people would earn Allah's satisfaction and people's respect and thereby be close to their heart.
On this account, the Prophet pbuh said, "If Allah loves a person, He calls Jibril (Gabriel) saying, 'Allah loves so and so; O Gabriel, love him.' Jibril would love him, and then Jibril would make an announcement among the dwellers of the Heaven, 'Allah loves so-and-so, therefore, you should love him also.' So, all the dwellers of the Heavens would love him and then he is granted the pleasure of the people of the earth."
Those who embrace good ethics would also, by Allah's favour, be successful in their work, excelling in their life, tolerant towards others and interactive with their real life, reflecting thereby a bright and praiseworthy image about their homeland.
Truly, when civilised conducts become the norm within a community, its members would cherish advancement, prosperity, maturity, strength and welfare. Thus, it is a duty incumbent on all of us to promote such civilised ethics and implement the principles of Islam, which represents the highest degrees of civilised behaviour.  
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to the best of manners for none can guide to them but You. O Allah please protect us from bad conducts for none can protect us against them but You.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah accept from all those who pay Zakat, compensate for them and bless their provisions.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













