addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
 
First Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil Hamd (Allah is the greatest - nine successive times - there is no deity save Allah, Allah is the greatest and to Allah goes all praise.)
Allahu Akbar Kabira, wal Hamdu Lillahi Kathira, wa Subahana Allahi Bukratan wa Asila (Allah is the Most Great indeed, and to Allah goes all the praise. And Glory is to Allah eventide and in the morning.) He bestowed His innumerable bounties and mercy upon His Creation.
I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
O Worshipers,
I would like to extend heartfelt greetings to you on the occasion of the blessed Eid Al Adha, the day which Allah prescribed after the Day of Arafah for us to celebrate. On this day, we cherish reaping the fruits of our good deeds, attaining Allah's forgiveness and His multiplied rewards.
It is Eid Al Adha, the day of praise and bounties and promoting the values of goodness and mercy. Today is a great occasion for spreading happiness and drawing a smile on the face of our beloved ones. It is also a time for giving gifts and advises to one another.
Indeed, one of the greatest things that we should advise each other about in this day is to obey Allah, the Most Exalted. Thus, I urge you and myself be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Almighty, in line with His orders: "indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (An-Nahl: 128).
 
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah.  Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil Hamd.
O People of good morals and noble values,
Our Eid is an occasion for showing good conducts and elevated values. It is also an opportunity for one to express sincere emotions and affection. Moreover, it is a time for hearts to come together and for people to greet one another and shake hands.
On this glorious day one should honour their parents and respect their rights. Allah, the Exalted, reinforces the duty to be kind to parents in the Holy Quran as the injunction to be grateful to them appears soon after being grateful to Him: "and We have enjoined upon man [care] for his parents. His mother carried him, [increasing her] in weakness upon weakness, and his weaning is in two years. Be grateful to Me and to your parents; to Me is the [final] destination." (Luqman: 14). 
Our parents' favours upon us are countless and they deserve our utmost kindness and respect in return. Allah, the Almighty says, "and your Lord has decreed that you not worship except Him, and to parents, good treatment. Whether one or both of them reach old age [while] with you, say not to them [so much as], "uff," and do not repel them but speak to them a noble word. And lower to them the wing of humility out of mercy and say, 'My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small.'" (Al-Israa: 23-24).
Furthermore, fulfilling parents' rights is one of the most important acts of obedience to Allah, an act that will earn you the satisfaction of Allah and His grace. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Nothing increases one's lifespan except dutifulness (to one's parents)." This is an obligation incumbent on us towards our parents during their life and after their demise.
Eid is also a great opportunity for honouring the ties of kith and kin in order to satisfy the Lord of earth and heaven and adhere to His order: "and fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (An-Nisaa: 1).
 
Our Master Muhammad pbuh also highlighted the importance of maintaining good ties with one's relatives as he said, "Allah said: 'I am Allah, and I am Ar-Rahman. I created the Rahim (womb), and named it after My Name. So whoever keeps good relations with it, I keep good relation with him, and whoever severs it, I will too severe relation with him.'"
Kith and kin means father's or mother's relatives, grandfathers, grandmothers, their offspring, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunts and their children. And keeping good bonds with them can be achieved by greeting them, exchanging visits with them, asking about them, offering them help and support. It can also be possible by giving them advice whenever needed, celebrating their joys, comforting them in their sorrows as well as overlooking their flaws and mistakes even if they disrespect us. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Al-Wasil (one who keeps good ties of kinship) is not the one who recompenses the good done to him by his relatives, but Al-Wasil is the one who keeps good relations with those relatives who had severed the bond of kinship with him."
Moreover, those who uphold the ties of kinship will, by Allah's favour, attain abundant provisions and be blessed by Him. The Messenger of Allah said, "Whoever desires an expansion in his sustenance and age, should keep good relations with his Kith and kin."
Please also remember that Eid days are valuable occasion for cleansing hearts, forgiving others' flaws and getting closer to one another. So, congratulations for those who seek to mend discord amongst people and putting things right between them. It was narrated that Abud-Dardaa, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "Shall I inform you of something more excellent in degree than fasting, prayer and almsgiving (sadaqa)?" The people replied: "Yes!" He said, "It is putting things right between people."
In this sense, whoever is in conflict with someone else should seek to solve it for this is the best day for forgiveness and the best amongst you is the one who starts with greeting (saying Salam) to the other. 
 
Indeed, Eid is a precious opportunity for showing love, affection and loyalty. On these days, houses would be full of joy and shine with visiting relatives. They are also valuable occasion for children to learn the tolerant teachings of their religion as well as Eid traditions and etiquette.  
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Illaha Illa Allah.  Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil Hamd.
Dear Muslims,
Today is an excellent one for giving in charity and for people to spend on their families. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "The best Dinar is one that a person spends on his family."
Truly, there is nothing one can do that is greater in reward than spending on our little children, touching the heart of others with happiness, extending helping hand to the needy and less fortunate so as to alleviate their distress. By so doing, one would be following the guidance of the Prophet pbuh as he said, "The most beloved people to Allah are the most useful to others. And the most beloved act to Allah is touching a Muslim's heart with happiness, bringing one out of his discomfort, paying out one's debt, or feeding a hungry person."
By doing so, we would also be following in steps of the UAE's wise leaders who follow the approach of giving and generosity and whose utmost and foremost goal is people's welfare.   
With this in mind, we praise Allah, the Most Compassionate, for all the favours He endowed upon us.
O Allah, may we ask you to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
 
Second Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar.
Allahu Akbar Kabira, wa Al Hamdulillahi Kathira (All praise is due to Allah, a praise which is abundant). By His grace, good deeds are accomplished. I bear witness there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is His servant and messenger. May the peace and the blessings of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who will follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, dear worshipers, that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah and know that this gracious day is an opportunity for Muslims to draw closer to their Lord by slaughtering their sacrifices. Through this tradition, Muslims follow the Sunna of the Prophet Ibrahim puh who was ordered by Allah to sacrifice his son Ismael. Ibrahim puh was ready to do so, but the Almighty blessed him with His mercy and gave him a sheep to slaughter instead of Ismael.
Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh revived this Sunna as he said, "The first thing to be done on this day (first day of Eid Al Adha) is to pray; and after returning from the prayer we slaughter our sacrifices."  
On this occasion, please also know that the government in the UAE has established slaughterhouses specifically for slaughtering the sacrifices. Veterinary teams have been deployed at those slaughterhouses to carry out medical tests to all the sacrificial animals and ensure the highest health practices. You are urged, therefore, to slaughter your sacrifices at those slaughterhouses in order to safeguard public health and the environment.
That said, please bear in mind that you are commanded to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 
O Allah! Please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of his companions.
O Allah! We implore to You to increase Your blessings upon us and do not withhold Your provision from us. O Allah! Please also bless us in what You have provided us.
May Allah, the Most Kind and Bestower of favours, accept our good deeds, raise our status by degrees and bless us with His forgiveness, satisfaction and righteousness.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
Our Lord, we beseech You to guide us to the true faith and grant us success to perfect our faith with good conduct. O Allah! Please also bless us with success, mercy, good health and forgiveness.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to grant us well-being in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah! We pray to You to Grant us the sense of piety and purify our soul as You are the Best to purify it. You are its Guardian and Lord.
O Allah, we implore You at this instance not to let a sin unforgiven, a distress unrelieved, a debt unpaid, an illness unhealed, a dead without mercy or a need unsatisfied, O Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
 
 
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with all words and deeds that get us closer to Paradise and further us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah, Please stand up for prayer and may Allah forgive your misdeeds and purify you.
 
 
 
 
 













