addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
In line with the initiative of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, announcing 2016 as UAE Year of Reading, Awqaf is set to implement a number of sub-initiatives that will engage all its staff. Such initiatives are aimed at promoting the cognitive knowledge of its staff, identifying innovation talents and developing performance in a way to ensure increasing productivity and efficiency of the employees and Awqaf too.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf, stressed that Awqaf was keenly interested in studying and analysing HH the President's reading initiative. This resulted in developing a number of ideas that are practical and conducive to ensuring discovering the inner reading talents hidden deep inside the employees, Dr al Kaabi explained.
"Our goals are not limited to exploring those who are talented in reading amongst our staff. We rather have a long-term plan and a clear vision in achieving the maximum benefits from HH the President's initiative as well as working on its sustainability. This should result in promoting employee's knowledge, elevating the level of performance, increasing production efficiency and bringing about innovations that can be used in developing the level of performance in general," Dr al Kaabi added.
Earlier, on the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE Cabinet has approved the declaration of 2016 as the UAE Reading Year. The Cabinet issued directives to start preparing an integrated national literacy strategy and a framework to produce a reading generation and establish the UAE as the capital of cultural and knowledge content. The initiative is aimed at introducing a new path for development based on innovation and knowledge, establishing a knowledge-based economy, achieving sustainability and nurturing an educated generation that is aware of the global changes.
Unveiling the initiatives that Awqaf is executing, Dr al Kaabi said, "we have distributed the 'A Book in Minutes' series of books to all Awqaf's executive directors, department managers and branch directors. Through this scheme, various publications of prominent international authors are summarised covering topics in the fields of development, individual and family development. The series include summaries of 36 books on self-development for leaders and management."
Dr al Kaabi pointed out that Awqaf would work on ensuring to make the best use of the content of the collection in improving the executive directors' approach to management and skills, both in theory and practice. The collection will be published on Awqaf's website so as to enable all of its employees to read it, he added.
Topics that were chosen by Awqaf includes: Humans are underrated, Creating a learning society, Reinventing organisations, How Can I Help, The Power of Noticing, Think Like a Freak, Rookie Smarts, Start With Why, Peaceful Parent Happy Kids, Stumbling on Happiness, The Challenges Managers Face, Never Be Sick Again, Finding Your Element, The Conscious Parents, Competitive Identity,  Alone Together, Collective Genius, The Motivation Manifesto, Insanely Different Principles for Breakthrough Success, Solving The Procrastination Puzzle, Bringing out The Giftedness, Break Through The Blocks And Win Your Inner Creative Battle, Decision-Making Methodology, No Drama Discipline, The Responsive City, Mastering Self-Control, Ten Types of Innovation, A Team of Leaders, Raising Happiness, Positive Thinking, Talk Like TED, Grown Up Digital, Energizing Your Work, Leading Public Sector Innovation, Teaching Kids to Think, and Culture Map.   
Dr al Kaabi further explained that Awqaf distributed the "Team Work" and the "Ten Keys to Success" on all employees with a view to find the element of reading giftedness in them and promoting their skills and knowledge. About the first book, "Team Work", Dr Al Kaabi said it addresses means of building a distinguished work team and boost its productivity, the tasks of the successful leader, how to achieve the best results through team work, factors impacting the structuring and success of a team, how to deal with an isolated employee and how to choose the right person for the right job.
Concerning the second book, the ten keys to success, Dr al Kaabi clarified that it tackles topics such as motives, energy, skill, imagination, action, expectation, commitment, flexibility, patience and discipline. He noted that both the books analysed and explained each of these terms based on previous expertise, words of wisdom, and opinion of some philosophers as well as old and modern successful experiences.
Dr al Kaabi further announced the launch of a competition amongst the employees which requires each of them to summarise what they have read. The contest aims to find out the gifted employees and discover their innovation and excellence elements. It also aims to develop skills of specific group amongst the employees in order to enrich their knowledge and motivate them to read. This should be conducive to improve the level of performance and productivity, Dr al Kaabi further explained, noting that a prize of AED 10000 will be awarded to the winner of first place, AED 5000 to the second and AED 3000 to the third one.   
HE Dr al Kaabi also underscored that Awqaf was going ahead in establishing a "reading club" at its headoffice. Such move will help in executing the decision taken with regards to allowing half an hour of reading daily for one employee at each department, he added, emphasising that the club would also organise brainstorming sessions for members in addition to many future events and contests that would serve the essence of the initiative.
According to Dr al Kaabi, reading is conducive to open minds and prepare a civilised nation. "Reading promotes forbearance, develops the way of thinking and expands perceptions. A reading employee is better than an employee who does not read. An educated community is protected, advanced and aware of changes in the world around. Reading will continue to be the key to education. The first message that has been sent down by Allah was 'Recite," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













