addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Sovereign, the Great, the Glorious. He, The All Knowing, recognises the secrets and the purposes of our intentions. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him belongs all the Dominion and all praise is due to him. He is over all things Competent. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his order: "and fear Allah and know that Allah is Seeing of what you do." (Al-Baqara: 233).
Dear Muslims,
Life is a field for vigour, resilient work, positivity and success. Yet, difficulties are part of the human life and one may face hard times during his life term. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "We have certainly created man into hardship." (Al-Balad: 4). That is to say, it is decreed that Man has to struggle in life.
However, a person who thinks positively and works hard would definitely look into the bright side of life and, thus, have wider horizons of hope. Optimism truly reflects in positive attitude towards life and resilience.
Indeed, positivity is part and parcel of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh's rightly guidance. He said, "If the Final Hour comes while you have a palm-cutting in your hands and it is possible to plant it before the Hour comes, you should plant it."
This is because optimism shall be reflected on the community's prosperity and welfare. It contributes to a healthy society where individuals enjoy high spirit and acquire mental and practical skills that are conducive to helping them achieve happiness for themselves and others too.
 
Furthermore, by staying hopeful one will, by Allah's favour, be capable of overcoming challenges, wisely handling all issues, making best use of the real life and building the future. Likewise, optimism removes any feelings of despair and passiveness that may fill one's heart and mind.
This can be achieved by ignoring discouraging words of those who try to stop others from doing any good deeds. The Prophet pbuh disapproved those who have destructive character and spread negative feelings amongst people. He pbuh said, "When a man says people have perished, he is the one who has suffered that fate most." This is because such a person drives others to be desperate of Allah's mercy and forgiveness.
In contrast, those who possess a positive thinking tend to motivate others, guide them towards the righteous path and encourage them to do their duties sincerely. Thus, through the company of such people, one can, by Allah's grace, carry on in his or her successes and achieve their goals.  
O Servants of Allah,
It is such a beautiful thing for individuals and communities to embrace a positive attitude towards contributing to building the human civilisation. The holy Quran highlights the positive attitude that strengthens one's determination and stamina, and thereby motivates them to achieve their noble goals.
One of the most important aspects of positivity is to be optimistic about oneself. Optimists strive to better themselves and embrace the best of qualities. Allah, the Almighty, praises such people by saying, "he has succeeded who purifies it." (Ash-Shams: 9). That is to purify oneself with performing acts of obedience and cleanse it from all ill manners.  
Truly, positive thinking strengthens our vigour and capability to face challenges. As such, obstacles would never form a barrier in the way of achieving our objectives. A good example in this regard is that of Imam Al Termidhi. Although he was blind, he could overcome his disability through his positive character. Ultimately, he became one of the most prominent scholars in interpreting and memorising Hadiths.
 
On this account, a poet said, "there is no flaw in a person that is worse than having a defect while they are capable of being perfect."
The Messenger of Allah further strengthened in his companions, may Allah be pleased with them, the determination to always aim high, seek betterment of themselves and perfect their deeds. He said, "when you ask Allah (for something), ask for Al-Firdaus which is the best and highest part of Paradise."
O Worshipers,
Please know that positive attitude towards our problems is the key to solving them. Another important factor to settling issues is showing forbearance towards others' mistakes. This requires us to advise people in kindness, guide our children towards betterment, remind those who may forget and educate those who are ignorant.
Our Master Muhammad pbuh taught such merits to his companions. It was narrated that Abbad ibn Shurahbeel, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "I suffered from drought; so I entered a garden in Medina, and rubbed an ear-corn. I ate and carried some in my garment. Then its master came, he beat me and took my garment. He came to the Messenger of Allah pbuh who said to him, 'You did not teach him if he was ignorant; and you did not feed him if he was hungry.'"
In this Hadith, the Prophet pbuh discouraged punishment without a purpose and guided the man to adopt positive and practical way in addressing the issue.
On another level, amongst the other aspects of positivity is to be optimistic in the speech that you relate to others. This entails choosing words righteousness and wisdom in order to encourage others rather than dispirit them. It also means selecting suitable words of mouth that are conducive to impart hope into their hearts rather than scare them. This way, one will be following the guidance of the Messenger of Allah as he said, "give them good tidings and do not make them run away."
In fact, kind words have really great impact on people. Through sweet speech, one can win people's hearts for it leaves a long-lasting beautiful effect on them. In addition to that, the good tidings giver will, by Allah's favour, attain a great recompense. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "A good word is regarded as charity."
O Servants of Allah,
A positive person also embraces the noblest manners that reflect on their dealings with others. Thus, you see them meeting others with a smile, inspiring in them good feelings of hope and delight. It was reported on this matter that when the Prophet pbuh visited a sick person, he said to him, "Cheer up, for indeed Allah says, 'It is My Fire which I impose upon my believing servant in this world, to be his share of the Fire in the Hereafter.'" 
By so saying, the Prophet pbuh imparted hope in the sick person so as to help him forget his pain. It is, therefore, such a great thing for one to be able to open new possibilities of hope through optimism.
In this context, a positive husband would always see the good side in his wife, and the same applies for the wife's attitude towards her husband. This is likely to preserve the bonds of love between them.
In like manner, optimism motivates an elderly person to take care of their health, exercise, be active and cherish their times, having fulfilled his duties.
An optimistic retired person will likewise invest his time in beneficial activities such as reading and expanding his knowledge. This way, one will be useful for his or her children and grandchildren, sharing with them their experiences and culture. They also tend to engage in acts of obedience that draw them closer to their Lord as well as participate in voluntary activities. By so doing, their good actions will continue as long as they are alive.
This is also the case with the optimist employees. They go to their work satisfied, cheerful and ready to do their work sincerely. Ultimately, they will, by Allah's grace, win His satisfaction and benefit themselves as well as their nation.
Furthermore, a positive woman will take good care of her children, preserve cohesion amongst her family members and touch their hearts with happiness.
Dear Muslims,
 
Positivity plays a great role in the society. In a positive community, people's achievements and good work will be recognised and appreciated. The Messenger of Allah pbuh set the best example in this regard. It was narrated that the Prophet pbuh once asked about one of his companions who was not present in the gathering. One of the people in the assembly remarked, "He is a hypocrite. He does not love Allah and his Messenger." Thereupon, the Prophet pbuh said, "Do not say so about him. Did you not hear him saying, 'There is no deity save Allah, having no associates,' seeking with it Allah's satisfaction?"
In this Hadith, the Prophet urges people to look into the positive side in each individual. Indeed, this is the best cure against backbiting.
Knowing that, we should reflect and decide to adopt positivity as a way of life and an approach in dealing with one another.
With this in mind, we beseech Allah, the Almighty, to bless our lives with optimism and guide us to the best of words and finest of deeds.
We implore to Allah the Almighty to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Servants of Allah that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Exalted, and always seek to be positive in our life matters. Indeed, through optimism one will attain Allah's satisfaction and be blessed with His generous bounties. This is because those who tend to be positive in seeking Allah's guidance, Allah, with His grace, will grant them success in achieving their wish and increase His favours upon them too. The Most Exalted says, "and those who are guided - He increases them in guidance and gives them their righteousness." (Muhammad: 17).
This means, those who seek guidance, Allah will guide them grant them success to be firm on their righteousness and increase them in guidance too. "Gives them their righteousness" means guide them to the righteous path.
Moreover, amongst the other positive impacts of optimism is that it reflects in prosperity and progress on the society with ambitious individuals who seek further excellence and development and are capable of facing all challenges. On this matter, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, may Allah bless him, said, "Does running water stop when it reaches a rock? Of course not; it turns either left or right, and continues its way. Likewise, a positive person is confident that no challenge will stand in the way of achieving his or her goal."
We should ponder on this and seek to embrace positivity in all its aspects and types. To achieve this, we need to encourage our children to be positive and contribute to developing their learning and practical skills in a positive way.
We should also strengthen our social relationships in a constructive manner. This is likely to help us keep good bonds with others and enable us to adopt leniency when dealing with them. It is also conducive to strengthen our stamina, lead us towards excellence and opens for us the doorway for a better future.
Truly, success is easy to be achieved by who are energetic and confident of achieving growth and innovation in all fields. This is because positivity definitely changes our lives towards the better.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the All-High, says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we implore to You to expand our chests with assurance and make our affairs easy for us. O Allah, please also purify our soul, mend our deeds, make our wishes come true and be pleased with us, O Lord of the Worlds. 
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous. 
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
 
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 













