addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf and Head of the UAE Official Hajj Mission, stressed that the UAE wise leadership's directives were always aimed at providing the utmost care to the UAE pilgrims from the time they leave to the holy sites until they return safely to the homeland as well as touching their heart with happiness and meeting all their needs.
Regarding the services furnished at the UAE pilgrims camps, Dr al Kaabi pointed out that the tents at Mina and Arafat are equipped with "unique" facilities.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "In line with the directives of the UAE astute leadership's directives, the UAE Hajj mission gives top priority to providing the UAE's 4982 pilgrims with all means that are conducive to helping them to perform their Hajj rituals in an easy and facilitated manner and meeting their needs throughout their Hajj journey."
He also urged all the UAE pilgrims to avoid peak crowding hours and setting in the sun for long time as well as to seek the help of the physicians accompanying their campaigns in the event of health issues, if any. In this context, Dr al Kaabi highlighted that all the 29 main Hajj campaigns in Medina and Mecca are supported with doctors, preachers and Faqeehs. Means for direct communication with the official Hajj mission is provided to all of them, he added. 
About the pilgrims' tents in Mina, Dr al Kaabi said, "There are 540 tents at Mina camp which are equipped with 5000 sofa beds. The camp is fitted with all means of comfort to ensure that the pilgrims complete their Hajj rites peacefully."
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that the UAE official Hajj mission has implemented a top quality project for cooling the UAE camps in Mina and Arafat. The aim is to ensure the highest level of cooling inside the camps, in addition to installing outdoor desert cooling systems to maintain pleasant temperature in the areas surrounding the camps.
Highlighting the efficiency of the new air conditioning system in Arafat camp, Dr al Kaabi explained that the AC units work at a capacity of 15000 tons whereas the required one is around 10000 tons, an efficiency rate of 150 percent of the needed capacity. The camps are also provided with electricity generators with power of 10000 Watts in case of electricity failure, he added.
Concerning the meals provided to pilgrims, Dr al Kaabi underlined that all the meals were subject to strict health control, noting that such meals were being prepared in accordance with the highest food safety standards, taking into consideration the weather conditions in Saudi Arabia. Each of the camps is furnished with refrigerators for juice and water, he concluded.
 
 













