addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















The UAE Official Hajj Mission started the distribution of 153000 meals to pilgrims at the holy places in honour of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan the founder of the UAE, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman and Head of the UAE Official Hajj mission, said that the meals would be distributed to pilgrims from all round the world on seven batches. The UAE Hujjaj Affairs office is overseeing the distribution, he added, noting that 20000 meals have already been distributed to pilgrims in Medina on two batches of 10000 each.
HE Dr al Kaabi further explained that 50000 meals would be distributed to pilgrim on the Day of Arafah, in addition to 30000 meals that would be distributed in Muzdalifah. Another 50000 meals are scheduled to be distributed at Mina camps during Tashriq days, he said.
"Hujjaj Affairs office closely follows up the delivery, storing and distribution of such meals. This is overseen by a specialised medical committee to ensure offering healthy meals that are rich in nutrients and provide the pilgrims with the energy necessary to help them complete their Hajj rites and be up to the physical efforts exerted during such blessed days," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
The meals are being distributed in accordance to a vertical style where the delivery vehicles are deployed in a way to reach all the areas where pilgrims gather, Dr al Kaabi underlined, noting that such style will facilitate the distribution of the meals without any burdens or delay.
"All measures have been taken to ensure that all meals are compliant with the health safety standards. To this effect, there is a strict control on the way these are stored and distributed. Preventive measures are also being taken, making sure that the meals are absolutely fit for consumption at the time of distribution. The aim is to guarantee the safety of pilgrims," Dr al Kaabi stressed, concluding that the mission takes all steps possible to guarantee that the largest number of pilgrims benefit from the meals which are being distributed in memory of late Sheikh Zayed.       
 
 













