addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















This Hajj season, the UAE Official Hajj Mission formed a follow-up and coordination operation room in coordination amongst Emirati/Saudi health authorities and international health organisations. The operation room will focus on following up and coordinating emergencies and effective ways to attend to them, as well as dealing with incidents, if any, in a manner to ensure safety and security of the pilgrims.
To this effect, 5 hotlines were dedicated for communication with the medical mission in case of health emergencies. The mission also launched several awareness campaigns in this regard and guiding signboards were installed in Mina and Arafat camps. Moreover, the mission organised awareness lectures for all pilgrims and technical teams in addition to designating rooms for medical quarantine in case of any unexpected health issues.  
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman and Head of the UAE Official Hajj Mission said, "UAE pilgrims perform their Hajj rites within an utmost healthcare, which is in line with the objective and essence of the mission's other efforts that are aimed at facilitating the pilgrims' Hajj performance." Providing the pilgrims with medical services and ensuring their safety is a key objective of the mission, he underlined.
For his part, Dr Abdul Kareem al Zarouni, vice chairman of the Hujjaj Affairs Office for medical services, underscored that the ministry of health plays an integral role in providing comprehensive care to the pilgrims in accordance with the high medical capabilities put forth to serve them in line with the directives of the UAE wise leadership.
"The ministry implements an integrated strategy to provide health and medical care to the UAE pilgrims before they leave the country and while they are at the holy sites in Saudi Arabia," said al Zarouni, explaining that such strategy begins with promoting pilgrims' awareness about health matters through the media outlets as well as the events that are organised at the ports. 
"Each pilgrim has a health form that is prepared in the country, containing their medical record. Such forms are uploaded on a system known as 'mass gathering medicine', allowing a comprehensive picture on each pilgrim's health state before entering Saudi Arabia, while in Saudi and after returning to the UAE," Al Zarouni further highlighted.
"Pilgrims' records will be updated with health incidents, if any. In the event a pilgrim develops any health related problem, their treatment will, if required, continue after returning to the UAE," he added, noting that vaccinations against meningitis and seasonal influenza are essential for ensuring the pilgrims' well-being and health safety.
Al Zarouni continued saying, "for each 100 pilgrims, one physician and a nurse are designated to take care of them. Moreover, all the accompanying physicians receive a training course before heading to the holy sites. It is a prerequisite for any Hajj campaign to have accompanying physicians in order to get licensed."
He further stressed that the medical mission contains four mobile medical teams to support the physicians' efforts, in addition to another four teams to inspect clinics in order to ensure their adherence to the instructions and standards of work. Surveys have been conducted on pilgrims satisfaction and feedback about the performance of the campaigns' doctors and the medical mission. Strict measures will be taken against any inadequate performance.
Concerning the elderly and those with chronic diseases, Al Zarouni stressed that those receive utmost care by the mission. "The mission's doctors would accompany them to the Saudi hospitals in case it was required. They also keep close eye on them while they perform their Hajj rituals. Some of them even perform their rites in the ambulance," he added.
"Pilgrims' health state is satisfactory. Medical reports about this are being sent on daily basis to the operation centres at the Ministry of Health and the National Authority for Emergency and Crisis Management, in addition to a final report that is submitted to the head of the UAE official Hajj mission," al Zarouni concluded.      
 
 













