addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















The UAE Official Hajj Mission has finished setting up the camps in Mina and Arafat in record time. The tents are designed to accommodate UAE's 4892 pilgrims and furnished with the best fittings. This is in line with the mission's objective in providing facilitated services to the pilgrims.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman and Head of the official Hajj mission, said, "Preparing the tents in Mina and Arafat camps was done in record-breaking time thanks to the concerted efforts by the teams on ground who started work immediately after the mission's arrival at Saudi Arabia. The tents are fitted with all the requirements set by the Saudi civil defence and have adequate finishes to combat against the worst conditions. Such standards are aimed at ensuring pilgrims' comfort and safety."
For his part, Rashid al Mazrouei, Chairman of the tent committee, stressed that the tents are furnished with all services that meet all the pilgrims' needs. Such services are offered by administrative and services staff to the highest levels of efficiency and technical skills. Health and preaching service are also offered there, al Mazrouei added, noting that top quality indoor and outdoor A/C systems were installed inside and outside the tents, including modern air-conditioning units, ordinary fans and desert cooling units.
Al Mazrouei further explained that the entrances of the camps were also equipped with e-readers for reading the pilgrims' identity cards. Such step was taken in order to identify the pilgrims and make sure they belonged to the UAE campaigns. Moreover, the electronic bracelets that were provided to pilgrims also help in identifying them, he pointed out, adding that allocating the pilgrims assembly points at emergency situations is one of the key safety measures.
Al Mazrouei also highlighted the care given to the quality of the indoor fittings of the tents, including furniture and carpets as well as fridges for water, juices and snacks.
On another note, al Mazrouei underscored the need for pilgrims to adhere to the safety instructions inside camps. Pilgrims and campaign operators should be instructed to follow such measures as not to cook or use gas furnaces or electrical random connections inside camps, said he, stressing that safety requirements inside pilgrims' tents were being monitored closely by the safety team.  
"Campaigns operators were briefed on all the necessary safety procedures. These will also be recapped before the performance of Hajj rituals. To this effect, a meeting will be held before Yawm Attarwiyah (the day quenching thirst) in order to present the pilgrims' movement plan which was recently explained in detail during the mission's tour in the camps," said al Mazrouei.
"The mission keenly seeks to ensure safe movement of the pilgrims within the 3-hour time set for them. Yet, it strives to even meet the record time that it achieved last season by completing the movement in just 45 minutes," added he.
In the same context, the services committee of the UAE official Hajj mission conducted several tours to the camps over the past few days, al Mazrouei highlighted. During such tours, the committee carried out field assessments to make sure that the highest standards of quality were being followed in the camps and that the camps are equipped with adequate food preparation and distribution systems, he added.
Furthermore, the committee's teams inspected all the UAE pilgrims' tents as well as the official mission's headoffice. The inspection was aimed at verifying whether or not the tents and offices were set up in compliance with the specifications and terms agreed upon with the relevant contractors, al Mazrouei further explained.
On another level, al Mazrouei stated that the committee was set to distribute around 15000 meals to the UAE pilgrims at the holy sites, including 10000 ready-made meals and 5000 ones that would be prepared and served on site. The committee will serve lunch and dinner meals to the UAE pilgrims on the Day of Arafah and in Muzdalifah, he concluded.      
 
 













