addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon 
All praise is due to Allah. He placed strong will and passion in the youth, provided them with superior energy and made them a source of hope and aspiration. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his order: "for those who fear Allah will be gardens in the presence of their Lord beneath which rivers flow, wherein they abide eternally, and purified spouses and approval from Allah. And Allah is Seeing of [His] servants." (Al Imran: 15).
Dear Muslims,
Allah, the Almighty, created Man and entrusted him with a mission to inhabit the earth with goodness and best invest his energy in achieving such goal. The Most Exalted says, "and it is He who has made you successors upon the earth." (Al-Anaam: 165). That is, to engage in acts of obedience to Allah, inhabit the earth and spread all that is good in it.
Indeed, Man is the foundation for building civilisations and glory. In this sense, any nation would depend on the strength and will of its young generation. Those are its wealth, power and beating heart. In their hands lies its present and they are the makers of its future. This is because the youth have aspirations and good will to surmount all their challenges and achieve their goals.
Being as such, they attain achievements, lead their communities' progress and secure their nation's welfare thanks to their capabilities and potentials. For this reason, the Prophet pbuh ordered Muslims to make best use of their young people as he said, "Take advantage of five (matters) before five (other matters)," and he mentioned: "your youth, before you become old; your health, before you fall sick...."
 
Thus, taking good care of our youngsters and making use of their strength is conducive to make them the most dynamic national power for building the present and laying down the foundations for the future.
O Servants of Allah,
In the UAE, our wise leadership puts the young generation on top of its priorities. This is because our leaders believe in their ability to surmount challenges and achieve excellence. From this perspective, our astute leaders established a ministry dedicated for the youth affairs and set up the Emirates Youth Council. They invest the country's wealth in developing the skills and expertise of its youth enhance their abilities and nurture their potential.
Ultimately, this will contribute to elevating their performance, honing their skills, expanding their experience and raising them on basis of sustainable future foundations that stimulate their innovation and creativity and thereby enable them to drive the future of their homeland towards progress and prosperity.
Our young generation is a source of pride for the UAE, and they in turn have to shoulder their responsibility towards their homeland and spare no efforts in the way of achieving its aspirations, guided in this by the Almighty's orders: "is the reward for good [anything] but good?" (Ar-Rahman: 60).
In this regard, paying back to the nation requires from the youth sincere and hard work, keen interest in driving the wheel of development by proposing innovative ideas and seeking further knowledge and experience. Truly, through the story of Yahya (John), the holy Quran sets for us a good example on how youngsters should be persistent in seeking knowledge. About him, the Most Exalted says, "[Allah] said, 'O John, take the Scripture with determination." And We gave him judgement [while yet] a boy." (Mariam: 12). That is, at a young age, he was given understanding, knowledge, determination and enthusiasm to do all that is good.
Furthermore, please know that the youths are their nation's ambassadors in seeking knowledge so that they would return and use their acquired knowledge in further developing their countries. It was narrated in this regard that Malik ibn Al Huwairith, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "We went to the Prophet pbuh and we were all young men and stayed with him for about twenty nights." So, those young men, may Allah be pleased with them, were delegated to acquire beneficial knowledge.
Therefore, young people are required to seek knowledge persistently, be committed to their work by showing diligence in assuming their duties and respect the laws of their country. By so doing, they will contribute to preserving their beloved country's solidarity, being a trust in their hands. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Indeed Allah will question everyone who is responsible about his charge, whether he has preserved it or lost it."
In this sense, the young men who seek to fulfil the trust of their homeland should strive to touch the hearts of all the members of the community with happiness and offer them all that is beneficial. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "The closest to Allah amongst you are those who are most beneficial to others."
O Worshipers, 
Please also know that the UAE is a young country that depends on its young generation. This is because they are the secret to its strength. Reflecting on the history of the Union, one will realise that our founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his in peace, as well as his founding brethren placed their trust in the youth. As such, they encouraged them to pursue knowledge and develop themselves to best serve their country.
At that time, the majority of the university graduates were young people in their twenties. Working tirelessly, they were up to the responsibility and drove the building and development engine.
In like manner, our youngsters are required, today, to continue their fathers' march and preserve their achievements. Indeed, the wise and well-educated youth are the basis for nations' prosperity, and with their good manners they will sustain their countries' elevated standing. Moreover, with such noble values they can protect our civilisation and protect the nation's accomplishments.
 
With this in mind, let us implore to Allah, the Almighty, to protect our youth and continue blessing us with happiness. May Allah also continue bestowing on us His favours and bounties.
We pray to Allah the Almighty to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Glorious, and nurturing the noble values in the minds of our youngsters. This way we will contribute to preserving their identity, boosting their coherence and promote in them the spirit of belonging to the homeland and loyalty to their leaders and rulers. We will also encourage them to adorn themselves with the best of manners, a mission that our Master Muhammed was sent to fulfil. He pbuh said, "I was sent to perfect good character." 
Truly, by embracing good conducts and performing all that is good, our youth will be able to reflect the authentic principles of their nation, which are based on the teachings of Islam and the traditions of our fathers and grandfathers. They will also preserve such lofty traditions and be a source of inspiration for generations to come. 
 
Therefore, our beloved youngsters are encouraged to make use of all the capabilities and seize all the opportunities that their country offered to them. 
Parents, likewise, should play their role in guiding and supporting their children, girls and boys, to help them meet their aspiration.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to guide our young people to all that is good and protect them against all the is evil. O Lord of the Worlds, please grant them success to be the wealth of their homeland.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.     
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
May Allah accept from all those who pay Zakat, compensate for them and bless their provisions.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













