addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
In a large ceremony held at the Abu Dhabi National theatre, Awqaf commemorated the Prophet's Migration anniversary. It was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's chairman, Awqaf executive directors, departments managers, scholars from Al Azhar, a number of Christian clergy based in UAE as well as a host of people from all walks of life. 
On the occasion of the New Hijri year 1438, Awqaf extended sincere greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, the UAE wise leadership and people as well as the whole world.
Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech titled "The Prophetic Hijra and the great transformations" in which he extended heartfelt greetings on the occasion of the new Hijra year to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him and continue blessing him with good health and welfare, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, UAE Vice President and Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
He also extended his congratulations to all of the UAE people, the Muslim and Arab people as well as to the whole world.
The Prophetic Hijra is a blessed event. It gave to all mankind the finest example of human coexistence based on moral values and regulations that benefited communities living side by side cohesively and treating each other in compassion and respect, Dr al Kaabi said.
"Dear Audience, Allah's messengers and prophets had led great progress and brought change to human lives not only because of their personal qualities of honesty, integrity, good insight and justice, but also of the systems of values and intellect they introduced. These are applicable assets that effect changes ensuring for people more happiness and dignity. They are also essential to set an environment that is conducive to populating the land and establishing a brighter civilisation cherished by man. Prophets and messengers were not in need of using slogans to fool people because the beliefs, values and ideas they advocated were compelling and admired for their own sake," underlined Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Our Prophet Muhammad pbuh received the recognition of great leaders and men of this world. They all asserted that he was the highest achiever and his accomplishments were by all standards prodigious. This is indeed a statement of truth and by no means a lip service. Nor is it an exaggeration or flat praise. [It was an unparalleled success] for someone who was born and raised in a 'dry and uncultivated valley' to change the lives of the [then] illiterate Bedouins and Arabs and make of them knowledgeable people, leaders and builders of a civilisation. He did all this while remaining open to all what is beautiful, refined and compassionate."
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted the fact that the Prophetic Hijra to Medina has benefitted humanity by bringing great changes to about a billion and a half Muslims as well as to the whole world thanks to the driving forces contained in the Quran as it promotes faith, universal peace and human progress. This includes sciences and arts being the basis of a civilisation that has brought mankind out of darkness into the light and fulfilled the Quranic everlasting principle, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you." (Al Hujurat: 13).
Dr al Kaabi also highlighted that the Holy Quran laid for us the basis of a culture of tolerance, which is emphasised in this Aya: "and not equal are the good deed and the bad. Repel [evil] by that [deed] which is better; and thereupon the one whom between you and him is enmity [will become] as though he was a devoted friend." (Fussilat: 34). 
Therefore, he said, "all such practices that the humanity has witnessed and is witnessing, and which are led by people who adopted an approach of 'repel by that which is harsher' are heedless. Through such acts, not only those are instigating animosity, hatred and blood shedding, but they are also neglecting all the divine messages and the prophetic values and following a sightless path."
Today, with the advent of a new Hijri year, we would like to extend to all people of all religions the spirit and culture of positivity, compassion and civilised co-existence that were promoted by all the prophets and messengers, Dr al Kaabi added.  
"On the blessed Occasion of the Prophet's migration, we call on all Muslims to rebuild a life that is as beautiful as the one established by their noble Prophet Muhammad pbuh when he arrived in Medina. Therein, he pbuh issued the Charter of Median which guaranteed peaceful co-existence between all residents of the city and, thus, brought happiness to them all," he further highlighted.
"The major aspects and changes of the Prophetic emigration were a Quran that laid the basis of a law of tolerance, a trustworthy prophet, who was keen on enacting and respecting rules, as well as promoting a community that favours cooperation, altruism, a sense of citizenship, forbearance and respect. At the centre of this process is the mosque, which has been the point of interaction and the beacon of knowledge and education for generations. It has also been the precursor that directs members of the community towards building and producing. With these qualities Islam has attracted bright-minded people and set the ideal environment for producing knowledge. But most importantly, it has become an oasis of peace and harmony," Dr al Kaabi further stressed, nothing that such principles were reflected by the Prophet pbuh as he said, 'A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue or his hands. And a Muhajir (an emigrant) is the one who gives up (abandons) all what Allah has forbidden."
These indeed are the major changes, amongst many. These positive transformations still inspire us today. They have been believed by people because they are free from extremism or immoderation. And because of their leniency, people have embraced those ideas and become part of their lives, he underscored.
Dr al Kaabi continued on saying, "our celebration today of this historic event highlights such values and goals. We aim at promoting them further amongst contemporary societies and generations, who are in dire need of them. This is also in order to support tolerance and social coexistence between all constituents of society and condemn all forms of extremism and terrorism. Indeed this is the approach established by the Founder of this nation: Late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He was known for his great interest in our bright history and civilisation."
 
On another level, Dr al Kaabi concluded by hailing The Grand Imam of Al-Azhar's attitudes towards consolidating social and human principles, moderate thoughts and rejection of extremism and militancy.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Hasan Sabtan, Prof. of Tafseer and Quran Sciences at Al Azhar University, extended the Al-Azhar's Grand Imam's greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, and the UAE wise leadership and people, hailing their great support to Al-Azhar and the Egyptian people.
Dr Sabtan then talked about the lessons drawn from the Prophetic Hijra, including relying on Allah, the Almighty, being devoted to work and taking the means in accordance with the guidance of the Prophet pbuh who introduced to the humanity the meaning of reliance on Allah while taking the means.
This was followed by a performance by a group of youngsters from Quran memorisation centres which brought to memory the traditional Islamic song "Talaal Badru Alayna" used by Medina residents to welcome the Prophet pbuh.
Meanwhile, Dr Bashir Abdullah Ibrahim from Al-Azhar delivered a speech about the Prophet's Hijra and its moral values. In his speech, Dr Ibrahim highlighted that the Prophet pbuh was sent to perfect good character, setting an example by deeds and not only in words.  
"It is easy for someone to write a book or a speech about good conducts, however, such writings will remain invaluable unless they were translated into action by implementing them on grounds. In this sense, the Hijra was a practical reality that left for us many of the Islamic noble manners," he said.
For instance, one of such manners is the honesty, for the Prophet pbuh was known amongst his people with honesty and even his enemies testified to such quality in him, he further explained, giving an example of the Prophet's Hadith: "Fulfil the trust for the one who entrusted you, and do not cheat the one who cheated you."
From such merits we learned that fulfilling the trust is part of the true faith and that a community with honest members, would definitely enjoy welfare and prosperity, he concluded.
From the Department of Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities, Sheikh Tareq Abdul Qader al Imadi, Head of Iftaa, spoke of the meanings of happiness, mercy and success that can be learnt from the merits of the Messenger of Allah pbuh throughout his migration journey.
For her part, Shamma al Dhaheri, a preacher from Awqaf, delivered a speech in which she highlighted the meanings of Hijra and positive citizenship, hailing Awqaf's efforts aimed at nurturing a generation that is sincere to its religion and traditions, devoted to elevating the standing of its homeland and loyal to its wise leadership.
The ceremony started at ten in the morning with the national anthem, followed with a recitation from the Holy Quran. 
 













