addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, received at Awqaf headquarters in Abu Dhabi Mr. Wael As-Sayyed Mohammed Jad, Egypt's ambassador to the UAE. The visit is aimed at learning about Awqaf's achievements and bolstering means of cooperation between Egypt and UAE. The meeting was attended by executive directors of Awqaf.
Dr al Kaabi welcomed the ambassador, hailing the deeply rooted relations between both countries' leadership and people in developmental, scientific and religious arenas. He briefed Mr. Jad on Awqaf's programmes and vision as well as its tangible achievements in religious affairs. He also highlighted Awqaf's role in promoting the principle of moderation, controlling the religious discourse, mosque construction, establishing model Quran memorisation centres and unifying the religious Fatwa reference in the UAE.
Dr al Kaabi further underlined Awqaf's contribution to spreading the principles of tolerance and peaceful co-existence which is an established approach in the UAE. He stressed, as well, the great support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council. Such support, he said, has greatly contributed to elevating Awqaf's services offered to the public.
On another note, Dr al Kaabi highly valued the strong cooperation between Awqaf and Al Azahr in religious affairs, the exchange of expertise amongst both sides and the great effort by Al Azhar's Grand Imam, Prf. Dr Ahamed Al Tayyeb, to serve Arab's and Muslims.
Discussions during the meeting addressed ways of boosting cooperation between both sides in religious matters through exchanging visits and sharing experiences, scientific research as well as collaborating in all that may contribute to further highlighting the civilised image of Islam and its suitability for all times.
For his part, the Egyptian ambassador expressed his gratitude for the hospitality shown by Awqaf, praising the deep relationships between Egypt and the UAE. He also hailed UAE's stances that support Egypt in all fields, appreciating, as well, Awqaf's achievements, advanced services and methodology in promoting the tolerant teachings of Islam and translating the UAE leadership's wise vision on ground.













