addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, described tolerance as the quality of resilient and wise people, considering that the new tolerance initiative is based on a strategic approach that is aimed at promoting goodness and cohesion throughout our unstable contemporary world as well as instilling a civilised strategic human value as a basis for building international, human and national relationships.
"The great challenges and changes witnessed throughout the world today necessitate the existence of strategic, wise and resilient leaders such as HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates. Those leaders were nurtured in Zayed's school for kindness and peace and followed his approach of tolerance," said Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi's statements came on the occasion of the launch of the global initiative for tolerance by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum. As part of the initiative, an award was introduced to honour global figures who promote tolerance in the field of human intellect, literary creativity and aesthetic arts.  
Sheikh Mohammed also announced the establishment of the "International Institute for Tolerance". The institute, first of its kind in the Arab world, will offer consultation, advice and expert views on policies for promoting values of tolerance amongst nations. It will also publish studies and research reports on tolerance, and coordinate with relevant authorities to instil principles of tolerance in the younger generations.
"Tolerance is a key value that is cherished by the UAE, a country that is establishing the most unique role model for modernisation in religion, education, economy and openness on all the positive factors of decent living, progress, happiness and social peace," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
He concluded by describing tolerance as a quality of the strong and wise leaders, considering that the initiative is based on a strategic way of living that seeks to endorse goodness and cohesion in our contemporary unstable world. It is also aimed at instilling a civilised strategic value that lays the foundations for building international, human and national relationships.  
 













