addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
In implementation of the initiative of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, announcing 2016 as UAE Year of Reading, Awqaf implemented a number of initiatives to instil reading as a habit amongst its staff. Such initiatives are also aimed at promote the employees' knowledge and unleash their intellectual talents and innovation. Ultimately, this will contribute to developing their professional skills and increasing the productivity of Awqaf.
To this effect, Awqaf laid down a comprehensive strategic plan to ensure appropriate interaction with the initiative. As part of the plan, Awqaf printed and distributed a brochure on the merits of reading and allocated reading halls at its headquarters in Abu Dhabi as well as branches across the emirates.  
Awqaf also distributed the "A Book in Minutes" series of books to all Awqaf's executive directors, department managers and branch directors. An electronic version of the series was also uploaded on its website. Through this scheme, various publications of prominent international authors are summarised covering topics in the fields of individual and family development.
Out of the said series, Awqaf distributed the "Team Work" and the "Ten Keys to Success" on all employees with a view to explore their passion for reading and promote their skills and knowledge. The first book, "Team Work", addresses means of building a distinguished work team and boosting its productivity.  The second book, the ten keys to success, tackles such topics as motives, energy, skill, imagination, action, expectation, commitment, flexibility, patience and discipline. Employees also have access to all Awqaf's publications.
Furthermore, Awqaf set a half-hour reading time daily for all employees to read in the halls designated for reading. In addition to that, it announced a contest for employees to summarise the books they have read.
 
 













