addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
Awqaf demonstrated its new smart application on smartphones at Gitex Technology Week 2016 in Dubai, featuring 12 main services. The initiative is in response to the instructions of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, to transform government services into smart platform, allowing access to them by members of the community from all walks of life.
Awqaf further launched its new Mosques Architecture service using the state of the art virtual reality glasses technology, giving the opportunity to viewers to interact with the displayed images as they move. The pictures are also accompanied with audio description about the mosques.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed that Awqaf was always keenly interested in upgrading its technological and technical infrastructure on smart devices in accordance with the highest standards and best practices in this field. The aim is to offer services to the public in any place and at any time in an easy and efficient manner, he added.
Dr al Kaabi praised in this regard the unyielding support to Awqaf by the UAE wise leadership, adding that such support played a significant role in elevating Awqaf's services and, thus, attaining the public's satisfaction.
The new app on smartphones and tablets is available in Arabic and English and features 12 main services in addition to other sub-services, Dr al Kaabi pointed out. These include mosque services, which offers prayer times across the Emirates, location of nearest mosque and Qibla direction using GPS technology, amongst others. Other services include Friday speeches, religious Fatwas, Hajj and Umrah, publications and books, Quran memorisation centres, Wqaf and Media centre, in addition to such services as Dhikr, request for mosque construction and Programme of Scholar-Guests of HH the UAE President, he explained.
At its stand at this year's Gitex, Awqaf demonstrated, as well, the "Mosque Architecture" service using virtual reality glasses. Visitors to the stand were able to view high quality 360 degree photos of a number of mosques across the UAE.
Through such initiative Awqaf seeks to foster interaction with the visitors at Gitex, promote the public's awareness about the distinguished mosques in the UAE and highlight the aesthetics of their unique architecture.
Thanks to the VR lenses used in the technology, visitors can tour the displayed mosques virtually without the need to physically visit them. They can also listen to voice recordings describing the displayed images.
Worth mentioning, Awqaf is set to add this service to the list of services it offers on smartphones and tablets.
 
 













