addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
As one of the most prominent countries that contributed to establishing the "Modern Fiqh of Minorities", the UAE, participated in the International Conference on Fatwa issuance kicked off yesterday in Cairo, Egypt. The conference, organised by the General Secretariat for Fatwa Authorities Worldwide, was held under the title "Qualifying and Educating Religious Leadership in the Issuance of Fatwa in Mosque Communities of Muslim Minority Countries."
Awqaf represented the UAE in the conference through its Official Fatwa Centre, one of its kind around the world and a point of contact for Muslim minorities from around the globe.
 
UAE's speech
Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, delivered the UAE's speech to the conference in which he extended greetings on behalf of the UAE's wise leadership to the participants in the conference. He further highlighted the strategic relationships between the leaderships and peoples of the UAE and Egypt, hailing the great efforts exerted by Al-Azhar Al-Sharif and Egypt's Dar al-Iftaa entrepreneurial initiatives that deal with contemporary issues and show the true beauty of Islam and its tolerant civilisation.  
"Such initiatives include this conference, which is held under the title 'Qualifying and Educating Religious Leadership in the Issuance of Fatwa in Mosque Communities of Muslim Minority Countries.' It is a leading initiative in the right direction as it involves exchange of experiences and expertise amongst elite religious and Fatwa institutions from the Islamic world," said Dr al Kaabi.
The conference, he said, is aimed at covering vital issues relating to Muslim minorities that are suffering from extremist ideologies and being the target of the terrorist and extremist groups that allure people using the cover of Islam. Those who are attracted to the Takfiri and terrorist gangs leave their countries and head on the path of Fitnah, thinking that they were migrating to the 'House of Islam.' As such, they kill those who oppose to their deviated and fanatical ideology under the flag of Jihad and fighting against disbelievers and apostates, Dr al Kaabi explained. 
 
Religious Discourse
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi addressed the religious discourse and highlighted the pressing need for freeing it from the clutches of the extremist groups who hijacked the religion. As a result, their deviated thoughts translated into the most heinous crimes, terrifying the safe people, shedding blood, disgracing sanctities, spreading corruption and committing the most devilish sins, he pointed out.
The correct way towards combatting such extremist ideology goes through promoting the moderate principles of Islam, supporting and qualifying religious leaderships that have influence on the Muslim minorities around the world. This should be done in accordance to plans, programmes, initiatives and methodologies that are overseen by such established religious institutions in the Islamic world as Dar al Iftaa in Egypt, Dr al Kaabi further underlined.         
He then briefed the audience on UAE's experience in developing and qualifying mosque Imams, establishing international partnerships aimed at developing the religious discourse and its institutions, disseminating the principles of moderation and tolerance globally, rebutting the extremist and terrorist ideology and countering the currents of bigotry and sectarianism.
 
Initiative 
In this sense, an initiative aimed at qualifying the leaders of religious discourse in a number of countries based on the principles of moderation was implemented. It included conducting a field study in each involved country in order to define the appropriate methodology for qualifying the religious leaders and articulating a scientific approach to train them. Such approach should take into consideration the nature and the cultural and religious identity of each country. Based on that, standards and controls will be specified for accepting the trainees, suitable locations for conducting the training suggested and equipped with all that is necessary for the purpose, trainees will be nominated in accordance to the laid down standards, controls and procedures. The initiative also included organising scientific and time schedule for the training and following up its execution.
 
Fortification 
As for the topics of the training intended for the Imams in Muslim minorities' communities, it included such contemporary and sensitive topics as: protecting the youth from extremist and terrorist ideologies, ways of controlling Fatwa issuance and enhancing its reference, citizenship rights, duties of Muslim minorities towards the host countries, positive involvement in promoting stability in the countries where Muslims live, disseminating the culture of dialogue and acceptance of others' opinions as well as benefiting from diversity in development.
 
3 main themes
The conference discusses the jurisprudence of Muslim minorities and the pressing challenges they face, mainly focusing on three main themes. The first one addresses the role that Fatwa authorities worldwide play with regards to Muslim minorities, including: experiences of Fatwa institutions relating to issues of Muslim minorities, providing support to leaders of religious ideology in the field of Fatwa issuance in western countries, experiences of Fatwa authorities in the Islamic world in communicating with Muslim minorities, and renovating the jurisprudence rulings (Fiqh Al-Nawazil) in a manner to best serve the interests of Muslim minorities.
Meanwhile, the second key topic tackles the issues relating to radical religious Fatwas within Muslim minority communities, examples of peaceful co-existence in the Prophetic era, the benefits of taking into consideration the four variables in Fatwa issuance within Muslim minority communities and a scholarly programme for qualifying mosque Imams.
Concerning the third theme, the conference focuses on the most pressing issues facing Muslim minorities, foremost of which is exploring ways through which Fatwa can surmount the Islamophobia issue as well as the social, political and legal threats faced by these communities. This should lead to agreement on means to deal with such challenges. The topic also discusses means of countering economic challenges faced by Muslim minorities through Fatwa issuance, in addition to analysis on Islamophobia and how it is connected to Fatwa issuance. 
 
 













