addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He gave oath by the sun and its brightness and dispersed his signs throughout the universe and made the sun its source of light. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He created all the creation and then guided them. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He urged for reflecting upon the beauty of Allah's work and promised the highest ranks for those who glorify their Lord. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with his orders: "indeed, in the alternation of the night and the day and [in] what Allah has created in the heavens and the earth are signs for a people who fear Allah." (Yunus: 6).
Dear Muslims,
Allah, the Almighty, disseminated in the universe signs of His creation and secrets of His work. All of His creation proclaims to His existence and testifies to His Glory. Indeed, the clearer the signs are, the stronger the faith will be. Allah, the Most Great, says, "We will show them Our signs in the horizons and within themselves until it becomes clear to them that it is the truth." (Fussilat: 53).
Allah, the Most Exalted, enjoined us to contemplate on the universe and reflect upon its greatness. He says, "say, 'Observe what is in the heavens and earth.'" (Yunus: 101). By observing the greatness of the creation and the unique and amazing universe surrounding us, one will recognise the greatness of the Creator of the heavens and the earth.  The Almighty says, "Do you not consider how Allah has created seven heavens in layers and made the moon therein a [reflected] light and made the sun a burning lamp?" (Noah: 16). 
Truly, whoever reflects upon the signs of Allah in relation to the creation of this universe, their heart and mind will definitely get enlightened and, ultimately, they will testify to the existence of their Lord and Creator, having no associates. A poet once said in this regard, "And to Allah in every movement or pause there is a testimony, and everything (in the universe) declares that He is One."
O Servants of Allah,
Sun is one of the greatest signs that guide us to believe in the Oneness of Allah. It is a clear proof of His Omnipotence and Greatness. Yet, it is one of the most supreme signs that are beneficial to human beings. Without the sun's heat and light the earth would be lifeless. It gives us light that guide us in the darkness, warmth and energy that are required for us to survive. Allah, the Most High, swore by it in an indication of its immense importance. He says, "by the sun and its brightness." (Ash-Shams: 1). The sun's significance is further emphasised in the Quran as it contains a whole Sura that is named after the sun (Ash-Shams.)
Dear Muslims,
Allah, the Exalted is He, linked great acts of worship to the sun. For instance, the timings of the five prescribed prayers are calculated in accordance with the position of the sun in the horizon. To this effect, the time for Dhuhr prayer starts after the sun passes its zenith, and when everything is similar (to the length of) its shadow, then it is time for Asr prayer. At sunset starts the time for Maghrib prayers until the twilight has vanished when the time for Isha prayer begins. As for the Fajr prayer, it starts as the dawn has risen. Allah, the Almighty says, "establish prayer at the decline of the sun [from its meridian] until the darkness of the night and [also] the Qur'an of dawn. Indeed, the recitation of dawn is ever witnessed." (Al-Israa: 78).
Moreover, remembrance of Allah and praising Him for His bounties is more recommended at times that are related to the sunrise and sunset for The Almighty says, "and exalt [Allah] with praise of your Lord before the rising of the sun and before its setting." (Taha: 130).  
 O Servants of Allah,
Allah, the Most Gracious, also made the sun a burning lamp that shines and gives a source of light for the surrounding planets. He says, "blessed is He who has placed in the sky great stars and placed therein a [burning] lamp and luminous moon." (Al-Furqan: 61).
With his wisdom, Allah made the sun's light as a sign marking the start of the day when people set out for their living and daily affairs. The Most Exalted says, "and made the day for livelihood." (An-Nabaa: 11).
In fact, the rotation of the earth around its axis as it orbits the sun causes the cycle of day and night. As a result, people can calculate the number of days, weeks, months and years, and hence their ages. Allah, the All-High, reflected this fact in His Book for He says, "and We have made the night and day two signs, and We erased the sign of the night and made the sign of the day visible that you may seek bounty from your Lord and may know the number of years and the account [of time]. And everything We have set out in detail." (Al-Israa: 12).
Has it not been for such a cycle and a perfect system, all times would have been the same and we would not have learnt any of these calculations. Thus, Glorified is Allah Who made the sun subjected to His commands in its orbit and positioning. The Almighty says, "and the sun runs [on course] toward its stopping point. That is the determination of the Exalted in Might, the Knowing." (Yasin: 38).
In this sense, it is of Allah's wisdom, as well, that He made the sun rise from the east and sets in the west regularly with no delay or change. Truly, in this there is an indication to the Supreme powers of Allah, to Whom all the creation are humbly submitted. The All-Great says, "do you not see that to Allah prostrates whoever is in the heavens and whoever is on the earth and the sun, the moon, the stars, the mountains, the trees, the moving creatures and many of the people?"
Dear Muslims,
Amongst the bounties of Allah upon His Creation is that He also made the sun a source of numerous benefits. It is, for example, of great benefits for the health and well-being. Umar Ibn Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, said in this regard, "Bask in the sun because it is a warm water bath of the Arabs."
 
Furthermore, the holy Quran also refers, in the story of the companions of the cave, to the great benefits of the sun. About it, the Almighty says, "and [had you been present], you would see the sun when it rose, inclining away from their cave on the right, and when it set, passing away from them on the left, while they were [laying] within an open space thereof. That was from the signs of Allah." (Al-Kahf: 17).
That is, the sun was a means for preserving and healing their bodies. Such fact is scientifically endorsed by physicians who assert that safe exposure to the sun rays enhances the function of all the tissues in the human body, boosts the immunity system, reduces the feeling of tiredness and contributes to healing several illnesses.
We should, therefore, exalt and glorify Allah, the Almighty, Who Created the sun and show our gratitude to Him for making it a source of benefit for us.
With this in mind, let us implore to the All-Gracious to make us amongst those who draw lessons from the signs of His Greatness, miraculous work and powers. May Allah also grant us success to be amongst those who glorify Him, the Possessor of Honour, and fear His Might.
We pray to Allah the Almighty to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Glorious, and know that sun is a great bounty of Allah that calls for contemplating on its greatness and reflecting upon the supremacy of its Creator. We should also cherish such marvellous favour by making use of the enormous benefits that Allah, the All-Sublime, laid down in it, such as light and heat, just to mention a few.
Allah, the Most Generous, has blessed us with such a bounty and ordained us to use our reason and grasp its benefits. He says, "and He has subjected for you the night and day and the sun and moon, and the stars are subjected by His command. Indeed in that are signs for a people who reason." (An-Nahl: 12).
Indeed, by using good reasoning and intellect, man succeeded in using the sun as a source of clean and renewable energy that has no environmental footprint, neither does it harm human beings. To this effect, the UAE has achieved a blessed leap in this direction with its Masdar city, the capital of clean energy and the world's first city that runs entirely on solar energy.
In the same regard, the Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Solar Park is a project that is aimed to offer plenty of renewable energy resources away from the conventional ways of producing energy.  
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh in line with Allah's orders: "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
 O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to make us amongst those who are certain about Your signs and glorify Your marvellous work. O Allah, please also make us amongst those who return to You and are humble before Your Supremacy.
 
O Lord of the Worlds, we implore to You to increase us in righteousness and guidance.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.    
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
O Lord, may we ask You to help us with all deeds and words that get us closer to Paradise and furthers us from Hell. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al Ankaboot: 45).
 













