addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Most Exalted, the Most Gracious. He commands us to maintain the bonds of kin and kith. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best of those who honoured ties of kinship and showed kindness towards their sisters. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with his orders: "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (An-Nisaa: 1).
Dear Muslims,
Please know that Allah, the Almighty, enjoins us to keep the ties of kinship, an order that was also emphasised by the Messenger of Allah pbuh as he said, "Allah, the Most Blessed, the Most High, says, 'uphold your ties of kinship for that is more enduring for you in this world and better for you in the Hereafter."
In this sense, one's kith and kin means his relatives from mother's or father's side. Honouring the relations of kinship entails treating them with kindness, both in deed and words, visiting them, checking on their health and support them at times of distress.
Amongst the relatives Islam commands us to give special care and attention to is the sister. This is because sister is by nature so kind and affectionate towards her family members that she does not hesitate to sacrifice herself in the way of them.
The Holy Quran set for us an example for such sacrifices in the story of Moosa (Moses) puh. Therein, this Aya tells us what his mother said to his sister: "and she said to his sister, 'Follow him;' so she watched him from a distance while they perceived not." (Al-Qasas: 11). His sister followed him on the day when his mother casted him into the river to protect him from Firoon (the Pharaoh). She risked her life and went to Firoon's house to bring her brother back. Thereupon, she said, "so she said, 'Shall I direct you to a household that will be responsible for him for you while they are to him [for his upbringing] sincere?'" (Al-Qasas: 12).
Moosa's sister strived in convincing the family of Pharaoh to allow her to take care of her brother. Her efforts in rescuing her brother were recorded and appreciated by Allah, the Most Exalted. As such, after Moosa puh became a Prophet, Allah reminded him with his sister's sacrifice. The Almighty says, "[and We favoured you] when your sister went and said, 'Shall I direct you to someone who will be responsible for him?'" (Taha: 40).
For this reason, honouring sisters was part of the guidance of the Prophet pbuh.  For instance, it was narrated that when his foster sister, Ash-Shaimaa Bint Al-Harith, came to him, he welcomed her by spreading out his dress for her (as a form of honour) and asked her to sit on it. Thereupon, his eyes became wet with tears and said to her, "If you wish to go back to your tribe, I will cater for you and send you back to them, and if you would like to stay with me, you will always be beloved and honoured." She embraced Islam and consented to go back to her tribe. So, the Prophet pbuh gave her sheep, camels and a lot of provisions and sent her back to her people.
Following the guidance of the Prophet pbuh, his companions, may Allah be pleased with them, also attached much importance to their sisters and were as a caring father to them. It was narrated that Jabir Ibn Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with him, once said to Prophet pbuh, "My father died and left seven or nine girls and I dislike to marry a girl like them, so I married a lady (matron) so that she may look after them." On that, the Prophet pbuh said, "May Allah bless you," or "That is good."
This Hadith shows Jabir's selfless concern about his sisters by choosing a mature woman who could take care of them rather than a young girl, serving thereby as an example for altruism and virtuousness.
O Believers, 
There are many forms to being kind to sister and observing good bonds with her. One of the most vital forms of goodness towards our sisters is to fulfil their right in inheritance that Allah, the Most Compassionate, prescribed for them.
It was narrated in this regard that Jabir, may Allah be pleased with him, consulted the Prophet pbuh about how to distribute the properties that he would leave behind amongst his sisters and daughters. Thereupon, Allah, the Almighty, sent down the Ayas prescribing the laws of inheritance.
Another way to honour sister is by offering her gifts and being generous to her. Gift-giving is one of the good manners that are conducive to touch the heart of the gifted person with happiness, maintain and strengthen the bonds between the sister and brother. The Messenger of Allah pbuh praised such manner as he said, "The upper hand is that of the one who gives in charity. One should start giving first to his dependents; your parents, your sister, your brother and then your closest relatives according to the order (of closeness)."
So, in this Hadith, after the parents, the Prophet pubh gave priority for receiving the offerings to the sister.
Moreover, he pbuh also urged Muslim men to look after the sister, provide for her and offer her the same amount of love and compassion offered to the daughter. He pbuh said, "Whoever looks after of two daughters or sisters, or three sisters until they get married, or he dies before that, he and I will be as these two (And he joined his two fingers)." That is: he will be amongst the dwellers of Paradise, attaining the highest ranks therein in the company of the Prophet pbuh.
Amongst other acts of goodness towards sister is standing by and offering help to her at times of difficulty and showing diligence in finding solutions to her problems. Truly, brothers are a source of strength and pride for their sisters.
On this matter, it was narrated that Maaqil Ibn Yasar, may Allah be pleased with him, had a sister at the age of marriage and many men proposed to marry her. He was looking for a men who would honour his sister and look after her. So, when her cousin proposed to marry her, Maaqil agreed. She remained with her husband for a while and he divorced her once and did not take her back until she fulfilled her term. He then wanted to get back with her and he came to ask her for marriage. Thereupon, Maaqil said to him, "I honoured you and married her to you but you divorced her. By Allah! She will never be returned to you."
So, Allah revealed this Aya: "and when you divorce women and they have fulfilled their term, do not prevent them from remarrying their [former] husbands." (Al-Baqara: 232).
As soon as Maaqil heard this Ayah, he said, "I hear and obey my Lord." He then summoned the man and said, "I will honour you and let you remarry (my sister)." Thus, he was keenly interested in looking after his sister, safeguarding her rights and maintaining here dignity and honour. It is, really, a religious and social duty on a brother to take care of their sisters or half-sisters and fulfil their rights.
On another level, upholding the bonds of kinship towards sister is not only a duty while they are alive, but also after their demise. This can be achieved by visiting sister's children and checking on them, keeping good ties with her husband, supplicating to Allah for her, paying off her debts and fulfilling her vows, if any.
More to the point, it was narrated that Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "A man came to the Prophet pbuh and said to him, 'My sister vowed to perform the Hajj, but she died (before fulfilling it).' The Prophet pbuh said, 'Would you not have paid her debts if she had any?' The man said, 'Yes.' The Prophet pbuh said, 'So pay Allah's Rights, as He is more entitled to receive His rights.'"
Indeed, those who show devotion in honouring their sisters and fulfilling their rights will, by Allah's favour, be honoured in this world and the next. Allah, with His grace, will grant them happiness, increased wealth, prolonged lease of life and blessed progenies.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us success to honour our bonds of kinship and show kindness towards our sisters.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Exalted, treat our sisters in kindness and uphold good relations with them by visiting them frequently. Truly, such visits have great positive impact on our sisters as they are a source of happiness as well as pride for them before their family members.
If, sometimes, visiting was not feasible, one should call sister over the phone and ask about her. It is also a duty to look after one's nephews and nieces because they have the same standing as one's own children as the Messenger of Allah pbuh advocated.
It was narrated that Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "The Prophet pbuh sent for the Ansar (and when they came), he asked, 'Is there any stranger amongst you?' They said, 'No except the son of our sister.' Allah's Messenger pbuh said, 'The son of the sister of some people belongs to them.'"
Knowing that, Dear Muslims, you are urged to observe good ties with your sisters, treat them in kindness and honour them. You are also responsible for nurturing such righteous values in the minds and hearts of your children. 
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Lord of Worlds, we beseech You to make us amongst those who observe bond of kinship, treat their sisters in goodness and fulfil their rights.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.  
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.    
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 













