addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
Awqa's Board of Directors hailed the UAE wise leadership's support, both material and moral, to the Official Hajj Mission as well as the great attention paid to the UAE pilgrims. Thanks to such support and care, this year's Hajj season was successful, pilgrims performed their Hajj rituals comfortably and returned home safely, the board said. 
The statements came during the board's meeting held at the Official Fatwa Centre in Abu Dhabi and presided by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman. During the meeting the board was briefed on the mission's performance report for this year's Hajj season.
The board highlighted the remarkable support to the Hajj mission by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates.
"Thanks to their close follow-up to the Hujjaj affairs and directives to harness all capabilities to serve pilgrims and provide them with all means of comfort, the Hajj mission excelled in offering impressive services to the pilgrims," the board pointed out. 
The board further valued the constructive cooperation with the mission by the pilgrims, Hajj operators and the competent Hajj authorities in Saudi Arabia, noting that such cooperation contributed to facilitating the mission's work. It also stressed the need for constantly laying down such policies that may ensure sustaining the mission's accomplishments, devising future strategies that meet requirements on ground and benefiting from the previous experiences.
During its meeting, the board approved the allocation of AED 1.5 million for the corrective institutions in the UAE. It also approved the purchase of 3 buses for the use of the Umm al Quwain Autism Centre and equipping them with all necessary means required for people with special needs. This is in line with Awqaf's mission and vision in contributing to serving the community.
On another level, the board also approved the construction of a number of mosques across the country under the Mafhas al Qatah Wqaf, a fundraising initiative that is sponsored by philanthropists.  Several mosques have been built in UAE since the launch of the project.
Furthermore, the board's meeting discussed several topics relating to Awqaf's activities and affairs. The board members then toured the Official Fatwa Centre and learned about its achievements and the development it accomplished through the use of the latest communication technology that allows the public members to make best use of the centre, which is considered the first of its kind in meeting the public's aspirations and answering their religious queries.
The board members visited, as well, the Sheikh Zayed Model Quran Memorisation Centre. They expressed their gratitude to the UAE wise leaders for their support to the Quranic centres, which thanks to their support became model centres.
 
 













