addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf honoured the outstanding employees at all its offices across Abu Dhabi. It is also set to honour all the distinguished employees at its branches in all the emirates one after the other. 
The honouring came during the annual gathering that Awqaf organised under the motto "In love of and loyalty to the UAE and its wise leadership" at the Abu Dhabi National Theatre in presence of Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, alongside its executive directors and department managers.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr al Kaabi highlighted the great support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. Thanks to their support, Awqaf succeeded in realising remarkable achievements over a short period of time, attaining thereby the public's satisfaction, Dr al Kaabi added.
"As a result, the UAE is now known globally for its moderate religious discourse and has become a role model for tolerance and peaceful co-existence amongst the diverse nationalities, religions and sects on its land," Dr al Kaabi further underlined.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Our wise leaders pursue excellence and innovation and urge for determination, concerted efforts and understanding of the current realities with a futuristic vision. Such vision constituted their strategic approach, positioning the UAE as one of the world's advanced countries that is spanning on the path of prosperity in an unmatched manner and proactively launching several humanitarian initiatives worldwide."
Dr al Kaabi also hailed the efforts exerted by all Awqaf's employees and valued their loyalty, determination, vigour and creativity, calling all of them to work in team spirit and pursue excellence and innovation. He highlighted, in this regard, the importance of reading and research in enriching knowledge, expanding perception and nurturing creativity and innovation.
For her part, Maria al Hatali, a preacher at Awqaf, extended on behalf of Awqaf's staff heartfelt thanks, love and loyalty to the UAE astute leaders, renewing the pledge to them in exerting the best possible efforts and harnessing all knowledge and capabilities in order to pay back to our beloved UAE.
Concluding the ceremony, Dr al Kaabi honoured the outstanding employees and handed over appreciation certificates and gifts to them, thanking them for their good efforts and commitment to work.













