addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He commands us embrace the best of manners and carry out acts of righteousness. I praise Him, the Most Exalted, as befitting for His Sublime Countenance and Supreme Status. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the epitome of high morality and ethics. Praising him, Allah, the Almighty, says, "indeed, you are of a great moral character." (Al-Qalam: 4). May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with his orders: "and whoever fears Allah - He will make for him of his matter ease." (At-Talaq: 4).
Dear Muslims,
Good ethics are of foremost importance and value for man. They lead to the welfare of the individual in this world and in the Hereafter. Through good manners one will, by Allah's grace, attain elite status in this life and a high rank in Paradise on the Day of Judgment, as exemplified by the saying of our Master Muhammad pbuh, "I guarantee a house.... in the upper part of Paradise for a man who has good manners."
In this sense, an employee needs before all else to embrace good manners so as to elevate his standing, excel in his performance and thereby benefit his family, in particular, and community, in general.
One of the most important qualities that an employee must have is honesty. Truthfulness is conducive to impart tranquillity into the soul, as emphasised by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "Indeed, truth brings tranquillity, while falsehood sows doubt."
As such, an employee should always tell the truth when communicating with others, be committed to his promises and loyal to his work by doing his possible best. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "Tell the truth when you talk, fulfil your promises, and give what has been entrusted with you."
Honesty and truthfulness are, in fact, tightly correlated to one another. When Allah, the Most Exalted, praised the faithful believers, he promised those who fulfil their covenant with success. He says, "and they who are to their trusts and their promises attentive." (Al-Mouminun: 8).
Fulfilment of trust is a great value which Islam commands us to apply in all our daily life dealings and affairs. Embracing good moral principals at work is vital for excellence at work, commitment to its performance goals, and ultimately building a happy and prosperous community. Individuals with a good work ethic are usually very productive people who work at a faster pace. They regularly accomplish more work.
An employee who demonstrates good work ethics will, fulfil the trust placed in their hands by their employers. This is in line with the teachings of the Messenger of Allah pbuh who said, "Fulfil the trust for the one who entrusted you."
O Servants of Allah,
Another fundamental pillar of good work culture is fairness and impartiality. In an indication of its importance, Allah, the Almighty, praised such a great principle in the holy Quran. He says, "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct." (An-Nahl: 90).
Establishing justice at work involves treating customers on a fair and equal basis. It entails processing their transactions without discrimination, offering them equal, secure and motivating professional opportunities. This should be based on understanding that all people are equal in the eye of the law, and the aim is to fulfil their needs, seeking Allah's satisfaction and rewards. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Whoever fulfilled the needs of his brother, Allah will fulfil his needs."
On another level, a fair employee should be unbiased in his dealings with his colleagues and team members. As such, they will avoid partiality and strive to be positive so as to promote a spirit of positivity and harmony within the work environment. By so doing, they will contribute to elevating the level of performance of their organisations.
O People of good morals,
Please know that an employee with a good character should show respect and courtesy towards his superiors, colleagues and other members of the community. This also involves being attentive to the social customs and traditions followed in the community as well as the work code of conducts and standards.
Employees must be respectful towards all people, showing, kindness and flexibility in their dealing with them, both in words and deeds. They should also make procedures light for them and facilitate their affairs whenever possible. This was emphasised by our Master Muhammad pbuh as he said, "Facilitate things to people (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them and give them good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam)."
More to the point, a good aspect of kindness is overlooking others' flaws and pardoning their mistakes. Repelling others' misdeeds by means of good manners, nice words, wise action and patience, is one way to win their love and respect and attain Allah's satisfaction and love. The Prophet pbuh said, "Indeed, Allah is kind and lenient and likes that one should be kind and lenient in all matters."
Furthermore, it is part of courteous behaviour for an employee to be pleasant and positive at work place, meeting people with a cheerful face. Truly, joviality is a good deed that is rewarded by Allah, the Almighty. The Prophet pbuh said, "Do not consider any act of goodness as being insignificant even if it is meeting your brother with a cheerful face."
Dear Muslims,
As an employee, one has rights and responsibilities too. The most important responsibility of an employee is to fulfil their duties in accordance with the specified work policies of the entity they work for and accomplish their work in the possible best manner. This way, they will fulfil the terms and commitments stipulated in their employment contract and adhere to Allah's orders: "O you who have believed, fulfil [all] contracts." (Al-Maida: 1). This is also in line with the guidance of the Prophet pbuh as he said, "O you who have believed, fulfil [all] contracts."
 
In this regard, one of employment contract terms is the compliance with the code of ethics and professional conduct document, which stipulates a set of core values that should be applied at work. Those include integrity, which entails putting the public interest before personal interest. It also include performing work duties without wasting or causing any harm to the public resources. Thus, an employee should maintain the assets of the entity he works for and avoid using them for personal purposes.
Equally important, adherence to high moral codes at work requires from an employee to work constantly to achieve the objectives of the entity they work for. This is because the salary that an employee draws is being paid against performing the tasks assumed to him. Thus, he is does not have the right to earn beyond what he is not entitled for. The Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever we appoint to do a task and provide him with a provision (an allowance or salary), whatever he takes beyond that is Ghulool (unfaithful dealing or stealing)." 
On another account, transparency in all its forms is another core value in the code of ethics and professional conduct. An employee should be open and clear in all procedures, goals and objectives. They should also behave in a manner that serves to promote and preserve the integrity and the good reputation of the entity they work for.
By abiding with such ethics, an employee will fulfil his commitments towards his work and meet the terms of his employment contract.
With this in mind, we beseech Allah's grace to guide us for the best of manners for no one can guide to the best of them but Him.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Exalted, and know that amongst the key factors to the success and excellence of an employee are piety and adherence to professional code of conduct and ethics.  This applies to both public and private employees.
Islam attributes a very high status to good work manners and urges Muslims to embrace them. These are also stipulated by law, the aim being to ensure that employees perform their duties faithfully, objectively and with integrity, and work constantly to achieve the objectives of the entity they work for. They are also aimed at ensuring that employees should perform their duties in good faith, without any ill-intent or negligence.
Undoubtedly, committing to such values will have a profound impact on an employee as a result of winning the satisfaction of their Lord, the Most Exalted, as well as the trust and respect of their peers, superiors, subordinates, colleagues and members of the public.
It is, therefore, a religious duty on all of us, whether employed or not, to apply such noble ethics and behaviours in all our daily life dealings.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh for the Almighty said, "indeed, Allah and His angels sends blessing upon the Prophet. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al Ahzab: 56).
 
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.   
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













