addthis_pub="newawqaf";















 
More than 7000 employees at Awqaf's branches across the UAE have celebrated the national Flag Day and hoisted the UAE flag high on all its buildings in response to the call of HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, on all UAE entities, ministries, academic institutions and universities to celebrate the Flag Day.
Flag Day is celebrated on November 3rd coinciding with the anniversary of President His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan's accession to the presidency of the UAE.
Awqaf's branch in Al Ain held the flag hoisting ceremony at Hazza bin Zayed Stadium where HH Sheikh Yas bin Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan inaugurated the event in presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, alongside the branch's employees. 
Marking this glorious national occasion, Dr al Kaabi extended his sincerest congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, Their Highnesses Rulers of the Emirates and to the UAE people and residents.
"The flag is a symbol of belonging to the homeland, loyalty to the ruler and the UAE wise leadership as well as readiness to sacrifice all that is precious in the way of the nation, its leadership, people, values and sanctities," said Dr al Kaabi.
"Our celebration of the Flag Day bears the connotation of our affiliation, loyalty and sacrifice," Dr al Kaabi added.
"Affiliation to a homeland that our parents and grandparents strived to build through centuries. In it, they left their heritage, memories and civilised achievements. They left behind mosques, castles, forts and a history of development and prosperity that continued century after century and generation after generation," he explained.
"Loyalty to the ruler who devoted himself to protect his people and provide them with all the means of decent life, supported by glory, power and noble values. Such was, and still is, the approach of our wise leadership. The efforts of the founding leader late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, are still remembered and cherished, so are the efforts of his brethren, those who passed away amongst them and those who are still assuming their leading role for their people," Dr al Kaabi further clarified.
"Sacrifice is something that is being offered by all those who hoisted the UAE flag flying high in all political, military, humanitarian, art and sports assemblies. Each Emirati, from all walks of life, raised the UAE flag high as a symbol of pride and an icon of sacrifice, especially in Arab, regional and humanitarian initiatives. Thus, they placed the UAE amongst the countries known to the world for patriotism, supporting the legitimate rights of our oppressed brothers by the hands of the heroes of our Armed Forces, providing humanitarian aid to the victims of war or natural calamities, or participating in international contests in various fields of science and art," Dr al Kaabi added.
"By defending the rights of the Yemini brothers under the UAE flag, our glorious heroes attributed an additional historical standing to it. The flag carried the colour of their pure blood, the everlasting glory of their names and heroic actions which they took in combatting those traitors who betrayed the honour of their nation and people and followed the supporters of bigotry and terrorism," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
"The UAE flag belongs to a country that is an icon of authenticity, giving, righteousness, tolerance, happiness and decent modern life. The blessing of glory and excellence will always continue as long as the UAE flag has carried the connotations of all such ambitious modern values," Dr al Kaabi underlined.  
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted the need for setting an honourable example for national cohesion in order to reflect the spirit of Emiratis' union, strength and affiliation to their beloved nation. We need to continue our efforts and sacrifices so as to keep our flag flying high in all international assemblies as a symbol of compassion, peace, advancement and prosperity, he concluded. 
 













