addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















Awqaf started installing automatic machines at all mosques across the country for selling healthy Miswaks made from the Savadora persica tree (Arak tree). Such civilised initiative by Awqaf is aimed at offering a high quality and healthy product to the public. In the first phase of the project, 250 machines will be installed while the remaining ones are planned to be installed at a later stage.
The Miswak, which will be sold for AED 3 each, is extracted from the roots of the Arak tree and is quality certified. It is vacuum packaged in a plastic case to ensure a long-lasting softness and protect it from being damaged as a result of repeated usage. The case also has a ventilation hole and a holder as well as a validity label that reads "Lasts for up to 10 months if used in shady places with mild temperatures."
The vending machine, with its corrosion and weathering resistant metal body, is specially designed for dispensing Miswaks. It works mechanically without the need for electricity and can store up to 100 Miswaks each.
Through such initiative, which is line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation for Miswak to be used as part of personal hygiene, Awqaf seeks to offer a first-of-its-kind self-service points of sale that are healthy and innovative. Moreover, those machines will be permanently wall-mounted, the aim being to eliminate the traditional way of selling Miswak on the streets, which was common for a long time.
The use of Miswak was advocated by the Prophet pbuh for men and women. It is recommended to be used at all times, especially before and between prayers as well as before entering the mosque or house. By using Miswak, one can, by Allah's grace, win His satisfaction and also attain its medicinal benefits.
In addition to protecting the teeth and gum against the bacteria that transfers through the blood circulation system or intestines, Miswak is conducive to prevent tooth decay, for both adults and kids. Its disinfecting effect lasts for 6 to 8 hours and is good as an alternative for the tooth brush and paste thanks to the sanitizing substances, antimicrobial agents and fragrance acids it contains. Miswak further contains such essential oils as flavonoids and alkali that help in boosting the immunity system. It is advised to obtain Miswak from the roots of the Arak tree rather than the stem or branches since the roots contain adequate amounts of the active substances.
 
 













