addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He enjoins us to forgive each other's flaws and be kind to one another. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the most forgiving amongst his people. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with his orders: "and to forego it is nearer to righteousness." (Al-Baqara: 237).
Dear Muslims,
Forbearance and forgiving are amongst the most commendable and noble human qualities and values. Allah, the Most Exalted, commands man to show tolerance and pardon others' flaws for He says, "so pardon and overlook until Allah delivers His command." (Al-Baqara: 109). He also says, "so pardon them and ask forgiveness for them." (Al Imran: 159).
Going down to their literal meaning, pardoning means to excuse others' mistakes and overlook their flaws, while forgiving is to forget what they have done and stay positive towards them. Forgiveness is a characteristic of the righteous whom Allah, the Most Exalted, promises Paradise in return. The Almighty says, "and hasten to forgiveness from your Lord and a garden as wide as the heavens and earth, prepared for the righteous who spend [in the cause of Allah] during ease and hardship and who restrain anger and who pardon the people - and Allah loves the doers of good." (Al Imran: 133-134).
Indeed, it is such a great reward and generous giving that will be attained by those who show tolerance. Allah, the Most Gracious, says, "but whoever pardons and makes reconciliation - his reward is [due] from Allah." (Ash-Shura: 40). That is to say, Allah does not allow their reward to be lost on the Day of Resurrection. Yet, they will also be honoured by Allah, the Almighty, in this world. The Prophet pbuh said in this regards, "Allah augments the honour of one who forgives."
The reason for such a great reward attributed to forgiveness and tolerance is that these have gracious positive impact on the community. Through forbearance, souls will purify, hearts will become closer and disputes will be settled. Our life is, really, full of examples on the great benefits of forgiveness. Many people who have broken off relations with some of their relatives or friends for many years became close again thanks to forgiveness. It frees hearts from hatred, replaces it with affection and cleanses our souls from the Satan and his negative energy. Truly, Satan only wants to cause between people animosity and hatred.
O Servants of Allah,
In our daily life, there are many instances where we need to show forbearance, the most important of which is towards the members of our family. The holy Quran has emphasised the importance of such value through the story of the Prophet Yusuf puh. His brothers were enticed by the Satan to contrive against him a plan, so they threw him into the deep well. He was then picked up and sold for a reduced price. At a later stage, they also accused him of being a thief, while he was a man of truth and honesty.
Although the discord between Yusuf and his brothers lasted for many years, it all ended when he forgave them. About him, Allah, the Almighty says, "he said, 'No blame will there be upon you today. Allah will forgive you." (Yusuf: 92). This means no blame will be there on you and I will forget about what you have done to me. Furthermore, not only did Yusuf forgive his brothers, but he was also so generous with them that he supplicated to Allah for them saying, "Allah will forgive you; and He is the most merciful of the merciful."  (Yusuf: 92).
We should, therefore, take example of the Prophets and Messengers pbut by pardoning our brothers' and sisters' flaws. Indeed, forgiveness amongst the one family members is conducive to reflect on their offspring. This is because when compassion is nurtured in the minds and hearts of children they will, ultimately, follow in steps of their parents.
It is such a beautiful thing, then, to see tolerance driving the relations amongst family members and relatives.
O Worshipers, 
Forbearance is also a quality which is required between a wife and a husband. They should always tend to solve their issues and mend their relation through overlooking each other's mistakes. Truly, in marriage life, forgiveness is an essential element of stability. It is good to understand that although it can ignite the other partner's anger, a spouse's mistake is normally unintentional.
This is why, Allah, the Almighty, urged husbands to show leniency and forgiveness towards their wives. He says, "but if you pardon and overlook and forgive - then indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful." (At-Taghabun: 14).
In like manner, wife is also enjoined by Allah, the Almighty, to keep in memory all the affection, compassion and goodwill that used to bear towards her husband, and, thus, treat him in kindness. The Most Exalted says, "and do not forget graciousness between you. Indeed Allah , of whatever you do, is Seeing." (Al-Baqara: 237). 
This Aya calls for remembering others' good qualities and graciousness and overlooking their mistakes. This way, hearts will become soft, souls tranquil and the family more cohesive. Ultimately, a happy and cohesive family will lead to a happy and cohesive community.
Dear Muslims,
As a matter of fact, disputes are part of the human life. One might have some kind of disagreement with one of his friends, neighbours, partners or any member of the community. When such thing happens and one keeps it in his heart, the Satan will entice him to cut relations with those whom he differed with. Truly, it is more beneficial to him to pardon and show forbearance, following in this the model of our Master Muhammad pbuh whom Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, praised by saying, "He does not return evil for evil, but excuses and forgives."
The Prophet pbuh set an example for perseverance and patiently endured the hardships and the harm he suffered from the unbelievers. They abused him and caused harm to him, his family and companions, may Allah be pleased with them. They also forced him to leave his beloved homeland where he was raised up. Yet, when the Prophet pbuh entered Mecca in victory and the people of Quraish took refuge of Al Bait Al Haram, he forgave them and treated them in kindness. Thereupon they said, "You are a generous brother and a son of a generous brother."
Thereafter, they became close to him and lived with him in harmony. Indeed, Allah is Truthful when He says, "repel [evil] by that [deed] which is better; and thereupon the one whom between you and him is enmity [will become] as though he was a devoted friend." (Fussilat: 34).
In this Aya, Allah, the Almighty, urges us to show forbearance, excuse and forgive others' faults and mistreatment. Truly, if we wish to win Allah's forgiveness we should pardon one another's flaws, for everyone will be recompensed according to their work. Thus, if one forgives those who mistreat him, he will, by Allah's grace, win His forgiveness. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Show mercy and you will be shown mercy. Forgive and Allah will forgive you."  
Pardoning others, in this sense, does not reflect weakness, but rather exemplifies self-confidence and ability to control one's whims.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to bring our hearts closer to each other and make us one of those who have forbearance.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Merciful, and attain forbearance in dealing with all people. This way, we will avoid all causes of conflict, dry its roots and enhance cohesion and compassion amongst us.
Indeed, Allah, the Most Gracious, has sent the Prophet Muhammad pbuh with a message of mercy to the whole world. Carrying Allah's message, the Prophet pbuh showed leniency and mercy towards his people. As such, he excused them, forgave those who were cruel to him, gave those deprived him and maintained good bonds with those who broke relations with him. In return of such gracious character, Allah expanded people's heart towards him and he became dear to them.
In this sense, the UAE has followed such righteous guidance of the Prophet pbuh. This is embodied in the leading role it plays in promoting the principles of tolerance and peaceful co-existence, nationally, regionally and globally. So, on the national level, the UAE established a ministry for tolerance, the aim being to further strengthen the foundations of forbearance within the Emirati community. It was guided in this by the teachings of Islam, the stipulations of the UAE constitution and the traditions inherited from the founding fathers, while also respecting the international accords.
Furthermore, the UAE founded the International Institute for Tolerance, which is aimed at promoting values of tolerance amongst nations and the younger generations. This is line with Allah's ordains: "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted." (Al-Hujurat: 13).
Thanks to such gracious approach, all people in the UAE are cherishing decent living and kind treatment. So, I urge you, dear worshipers, to embrace the quality of tolerance and embody it in your daily life dealings with all people.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh for the Almighty said, The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, grant us success to be amongst those who are tolerant.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
 We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).    
 













