addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The branches of Awqaf started the Quran memorisation tests for Imams and muezzins, which were approved by Awqaf in the context of its strategic plan to maintain the imams' level of memorisation, and enhance their understanding and comprehension of Quranic meanings and verses.
On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, emphasised that the UAE leadership was keen to serve the Quran and elevate the Quran memorisation level of Imams and preachers, harnessing all material and moral capabilities and supporting everything that would elicit goodness from the Quranic sciences and the memorisation of its clear verses.
Dr al Kaabi indicated that Awqaf prepared a special program for conducting the memorisation tests of Imams and preachers. Such program was accurate and straightforward in utilizing computers to ensure fairness and transparency during testing. The members of the Testing Committee formed by Awqaf were specially trained and qualified to use this system and thus have expertise in the adopted and approved exam mechanism.
The Rashid Bin Ahmed Al Mualla Award for Holy Quran opened registration for the Incentive School Holy Quran Competition, which came in the context of the first fruitful programs and activities organised by it this year at Umm Al Quwain schools.
Khalfan Abdullah Bin Yukha, the Secretary General of the Award, said that the Award, since it was established by Sheikh Rashid bin Ahmed Al Mualla, may Allah rest him in peace, succeeded in translating its objectives for serving the Book of Allah, the Most Exalted, and Islamic culture. This was achieved through programs and activities that attracted school students to participate in the Quran memorisation contest, thereby instilling the love of the Quran in their souls.
Yukha added that the Award, in its 7th edition, would strive to achieve its previous goals. Registration was opened for students desiring to participate as of Sunday until January 13th. It included lectures introducing the school students to the categories and most important items of the Award, so that they would be encouraged to participate.
He asserted that the objectives of the competition included motivating students to memorise Quran by creating a spirit of competition amongst them; paying attention to the Book of Allah (Quran), with a specific focus on Quran memorisation, Tajweed and recitation; highlighting the merits of the Quran and honouring the people of the Quran.
Yukha praised the role of the Award in serving Quran and Sunnah, emphasising that the Award and its activities were in line with the objectives of the higher committee of Rashid Bin Ahmed Al Mualla Award. The aim is to serve the largest segment of society by spreading awareness and culture among them, he added. 
For his part, Ibrahim Jassem al Mansouri, the Chairman of the Technical Committee, clarified that the Award, in its 7th edition, included 5 categories. The first category was kindergarten, which would memorise from Surat Ad-Dhuha to Surat An-Nas. The second category, from Grade 1 to Grade 5, would memorise the part of Amma. The third category, from Grade 6 to Grade 9, would memorise the parts of Amma and Tabark. The fourth category, from Grade 10 to 12, would memorise parts 28, 29 and 30. The fifth category included all grades, in which the last five parts of the Quran would be memorised. 
Al Mansouri added that the contest terms allowed students to participate in the preliminaries to be qualified for the finals on the basis of two students from each category form each school. A student would be allowed to participate in the category to which he belonged, or in the fifth category only. He confirmed that the winners of the first three ranks in the previous sessions would not be allowed to participate in the same category in which they won.













