addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The visitors to the website of Awqaf, till December of this year, reached 1,9 million visitors from 220 countries. This number is expected to increase to more than 2 million visitors by the beginning of the next year. The number of views of all the website's pages and e-services reached about 4.4 million. The page of Friday Khutba attracted web browsers from 113 countries.
This year, the website received more than 51 suggestions which were followed up and considered by the IT Department. Such suggestions were used in developing the website's services so as to earn the satisfaction of the public and website visitors.
This information, as well as the suggestions, were included in a report issued by the IT Department, on the occasion of adding a new set of interactive e-services on Awqaf's website this year.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf, clarified that the remarkable rise in the number of website visitors came as a result of Awqaf's strategic plan, which was approved and followed up by the UAE Cabinet. Such rise is also attributed to the constant update of renewed content and the layout of the website, as a result of new services added to meet the demands of website visitors and browsers. The adopted method for using and browsing website content also attracts visitors, for it helps visitors and customers to have easy access to the required information, Dr al Kaabi further explained.
The new interactive services on the website include applying for a new license and Renewing an existing license for Hajj, applying for the holy Quran Memorisation Centres and applying for a financial report on Waqf. The website also provides the Service Finder, which includes interactive maps to facilitate searching for the nearest mosque, Quran memorisation centres, Waqf representatives and the e-fatwa by Al Murshid Al Amin. The latter service allows the public to submit their religious inquiries and e-communicate with the Official Fatwa Centre, so as to benefit from fatwas that were previously answered.
The website presents, as well, an archive of such fatwas classified according to their topics. There are currently more than 4040 published fatwas.
For the 5th year since its opening, the Official Fatwa Centre continues to provide its services and answer the inquiries of the public. In the latest statistics of 2013 there were 2 million fatwas, including 1556811 via telephone, 244340 via SMS and 35615 online fatwas.
The users of the website social media services, including YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook, reached more than 55800 users. There are other services such as Awqaf News, Morning Prayers, Prayer Times, Friday Khutba, and several other services permanently needed by the community. Additional e-services are being developed and will soon be launched both on the website and Awqaf's application on smartphones and tablets. As a result, the visitors to the website are expected to increase in the future.
It is worth mentioning that the Awqaf's website won the Gold Prize for the Best Arab Website 2013 of the Arab Academy for Internet Awards. It scored 97 per cent in 2012 and won the Gold Prize and Best Strategic Website at the UAE level in the category of general official and government websites in the Arab Websites Shield Award in 2012.  In 2010 and 2011, it scored 100 percent overall in an official assessment for the quality of official websites. Furthermore, it won the Technological Innovation Prize in the category of official entities for 2011.
 













