addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Egyptian President, Counselor Adly Mansour, granted HE Dr Hamdan bin Musallam al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, the First Class Medal of Science and Art, on the sidelines of the celebration held on the occasion of the birth Anniversary of Prophet Muhammad.
The honouring of Dr Hamdan al Mazroui comes in the context of the close ties between the UAE and the Arab Republic of Egypt. The UAE supports efforts by Egypt to establish stability, promote development and security, and proceed with the political path embodied by its future strategy.
On the occasion, HE Dr al Mazrouei expressed his utmost delight in being honoured by the Egyptian President. He indicated that such honouring reflected the deep and strong relations between the UAE and Egypt.
"Being honoured by Egypt, the country of Al Azhar Al Sharif, is something special for me," al Mazrouei highlighted, emphasising the strong brotherly relation between the UAE and Egypt and expressing hopes that Cairo would overcome the current transitional phase towards a better future.
"The power and stability of the land of Egypt is firmly linked to the safety of Arab and Islamic countries," he further underscored.
In a statement to the Middle East News Agency, Dr al Mazrouei expressed his happiness in regards to the decision of the Egyptian Minister of Awqaf, HE Dr Mokhtar Gomaa, to approve his membership in the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs in Egypt, which is an Islamic beacon. Al Mazroui demanded that endowment funds to be optimally invested in development projects in Islamic countries, declaring that the UAE was keenly interested to cooperate with Egypt in this regard.
Dr. al Mazrouei indicated that he and Dr Gomaa discussed coordination amongst Islamic countries to generate the largest return of waqf funds in these states and benefit from the experience of Egypt and Al Azhar Al Sharif.
"Such experience would specifically be crucial to renewing religious discourse and cooperation in preparing Islamic studies about the issues of concern for both countries and the Muslim world," he added. He revealed that a high-level delegation from the UAE would participate in the conference of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs in Cairo scheduled for next March, further stressing the necessity of strengthening cooperation among Islamic countries to confront their economic problems.
At a meeting held earlier today, Dr al Mazroui and Dr Gomaa discussed means of strengthening cooperative religious relations between both countries. Dr al Mazrouei praised Egypt's international stances and leading role in the Arab and Islamic world. He also praised the role of Al Azhar Al Sharif and its scientists in carrying the banner of Islam's moderation and tolerance and promoting religious sciences and the Arabic language in Egypt and throughout the world.
According to the Middle East News Agency, both sides, during the meeting, agreed to exchange delegations, prepare studies, and participate in Arab, Islamic, and international conferences.  Furthermore, they concurred to benefit from the experience of the Egyptian Awqaf in using Waqf in developmental projects.  
Dr Gomaa concluded by expressing his gratitude for the close, brotherly relations between the UAE and Egypt as well as the fruitful cooperation between the Ministry of Awqaf in both countries.
 













