addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf commemorated the Birth Anniversary of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh at the Abu Dhabi NationalTheatre in the presence of Dr Hamdan Bin Musallam al Mazrouei, Awqaf's Chairman and Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the Director General. A number of executives, directors of branches and departments managers, guests, alongside a large gathering of the public were also present at the celebration.
On this occasion, Dr al Mazroui , congratulated HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Supreme Members of the Council and Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, Their  Highness Crown Princes, Deputy Rulers, and the UAE  citizens and residents.
Dr al Mazroui prayed to Allah, the Almighty, to bless the UAE on this occasion with goodness, progress, and prosperity. He also implored to Allah, the Almighty, to grant His mercy on the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
Talib Al Shehhi, the Director of the Department of Preaching, delivered a speech on behalf of Awqaf in which  he affirmed that Allah chose His Prophet pbuh and sent him to all people as a witness, a bearer of glad tidings, a warner, one who invited to Allah's grace and as a beacon of light. Allah preferred His Prophet over all people and blessed him with the best merits and qualities that showed his standing and honour, he added.
"This day, in which we commemorate the Prophet's honourable birth anniversary, is a great day. On this day, we renew the feelings of longing and belief in the greatness of our kind Prophet. Our hearts beat with his love, our tongues are wet uttering his name and our senses move by following his guidance," al Shehhi concluded.
 













