addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In line with its strategic plan, approved by the UAE Cabinet, Awqaf held its periodic mobile workshop. The workshop was headed by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, in the presence of all executives and branch directors of Awqaf across the UAE.
The workshop started with an extended meeting with around 900 Imams and Muezzins in RAK. Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he praised support by the UAE wise leadership to Awqaf's mission and projects aimed at serving the best interests of the community.
He prayed to Allah to always grant continued good health and success to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Following his initial speech, Dr al Kaabi addressed the Imams and Muezzins. He referred to their standing and role in promoting religious awareness and strengthening the mission of mosques in the community. He also highlighted the importance of such periodic meetings with them as such meetings provide them with the latest developments in Awqaf's vision concerning administrative and job affairs, as well as its mission to serve the religion, the nation and the community.
Awqaf always seeks to reach out to the Imams and Muezzins to follow up on their affairs in order to eliminate obstacles in their way through consultation and constructive dialogue, Dr al Kaabi underlined.
During the meeting, HE Dr al Kaabi urged them to seek further knowledge and enhance their efficient performance in memorising the Quran and understanding its meaning.
Awqaf actually started annual tests to measure the development and excellence level of each Imam and Muezzin. Accordingly, it would organise the appropriate lectures and qualifying courses to raise the efficiency of people wherever required.
 Dr al Kaabi discussed the role played by al Imam Al Jamai in overseeing the Quran memorisation sessions and preaching lectures, which were held in nearby mosques. He also talked about the Imam's interaction with the residents in the nearby area on different occasions and the coordination amongst the Imams themselves to assign an alternative Imam.
At the end of the meeting with Imams and Muezzins, Dr al Kaabi allowed open discussions aimed at exploring best ways to achieve employees' satisfaction.
The meeting was followed by the first periodic workshop for the branch directors of Awqaf in 2014. It addressed mechanism of implementing Resolution No. 39 of 2012 of the Cabinet on the Maintenance and Caretaking of Mosques, the Imam al Jamai Initiative, the proposed initiative related to the mosques on outside roads and reviewing mosques' names.
The workshop further discussed mechanisms of executing the Board decision on completing marriage procedures for (single) Imams and Muezzins. Increased care was given to mosques on outside roads in terms of maintenance, cleaning and other required services for travellers and mosque goers.
 













