addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The first workshop held by Awqaf at Corniche Hall in Ras Al Khaimah reviewed the mechanism for implementing resolution No. 39 of 2012 on the Maintenance and Caretaking of Mosques. Mosques are intended to be oases of faith and beacons of guidance and culture through lectures, sermons and lessons, which enrich religious culture related to moderation, tolerance, authenticity, and modernity.
The workshop stressed that the mosques on outside roads were given more attention by Awqaf in terms of maintenance, cleanliness and other services necessary for travellers and mosque goers. It also highlighted that Awqaf coordinated and followed up with ADNOC and other competent authorities to make such mosques prestigious national landmarks, especially the mosques on the international roads. These should be provided with all facilities, technical capabilities and integrated services just like other mosques inside cities and villages, the workshop underscored. It was suggested that an ad hoc committee be formed to follow up on this matter.
The al Imam al Jamai initiative began to reap its fruits in terms of daily communication between the neighbouring Imams and Muezzins. This reflected positively on mosques caretaking, self-criticism for betterment of performance, developing the skills of Imams in sermons and teaching and keeping them abreast with the latest developments in local and global cultural life.
The workshop discussed several topics on its agenda and took the relative appropriate decisions.
It is worth mentioning that this workshop is held twice per month across the emirates and discusses the latest developments in religious, administrative, and national work. Through such workshops, Awqaf seeks to establish the spirit of teamwork and engage all its directors in dialogue and taking appropriate decisions.
The workshop was chaired by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, in the presence of Awqaf's executives and branch directors across the emirates.
Dr al Kaabi praised the care and continuous support of the UAE wise leadership to Awqaf's projects. He prayed to Allah, the Glorified and Exalted is He, to grant continued good health and wellness to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Dr al Kaabi further mentioned that national initiatives and future strategies were recently launched by the UAE government with a view to provide the possible best level of living to the UAE citizens and residents. Accordingly, the key topics of this workshop will keep in line with the aspiration of the UAE's leadership to touch the hearts of all people in the UAE with happiness.
Dr al Kaabi concluded by urging all directors of Awqaf to exert as much effort as they could to implement Awqaf's service and urban plans.
 













