addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Zayed Higher Organization for Humanitarian Care and Special Needs yesterday signed a memorandum of understanding with Awqaf to enrich humanitarian and charity work by developing plans to support, prepare and rehabilitate people with disabilities. These plans are aimed at integrating this category into the society so as to enable it to effectively participate in the renaissance process witnessed in the country. This can be achieved by providing them with special services, social care and facilities that meet their needs.
The memorandum was signed by Mr. Mohammed Fadhel Al Hameli, Vice Chairman and Secretary General of the Zayed Higher Organisation for Humanitarian Care and Special Needs, and Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf.
Under the MoU, the parties agreed to organise the participation of people with special needs in the activities and events of Awqaf, deliver religious lectures and workshops about disabilities and support the events and activities of Abu Dhabi Centre for Autism of Zayed Higher Organisation, which serves children with autism.
The memorandum stipulates that Awqaf shall allocate jobs for people with special needs, facilitate Hajj and Umrah for the Organisation's students and their parents, call the Organisation and the people under its auspices of this category for Hajj and Umrah campaigns and register people with special needs in the Quran memorisation centres for free.
It also provides that joint committees will be formed to prepare the proposed action programs and plans to be accomplished between the two entities. Concerning the committees, Awqaf will participate in the works of the Sports and Social Integration Committee of the Organisation.
Upon signing the MoU, Mr. Mohamed Fadel Al Hameli praised Awqaf's vital role and its support and care for Zayed Higher Organisation, especially the Organisation's Abu Dhabi Centre for Autism. He clarified that signing this MoU came in line with the Organisation's strategy to develop work mechanisms and conclude partnerships with foundations and entities to serve the best interests of the groups of people under the auspices of the Organisation, including people with disabilities and orphans.
Mr. Al Hameli noted that the Zayed Higher Organisation sought to open more channels of communication and cooperation with partners and foundations working in the charitable and humanitarian sectors. He emphasised that Awqaf was one of the leading entities working in humanitarian field and that by virtue of this MoU, cooperation and coordination with Awqaf would be documented and framed in a set of joint humanitarian projects and initiatives.
On his part, Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei welcomed the partnership with Zayed Higher Organisation for Humanitarian Care and Special Needs, praising their leadership and keenly interested in providing care for those with disabilities in order to meet their needs through the best services and continuous material and moral support.
Dr al Mazroui continued saying, "Under this agreement, we will work together with Zayed Higher Organisation for Humanitarian Care and Special Needs to support and secure the required services for improving the capabilities of disabled community members,  providing them with all means to take steady and clear paces that would facilitate matters in their life. We, at Awqaf, are keenly interested in raising the awareness of those with special needs in understanding their abilities so as to employ them, investing in these abilities, and breaking their isolation and completely integrating them in the community."
 













