addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf organised a workshop to discuss topics presented by the Federal National Council. The workshop was held at the Al Bateen Centre in Abu Dhabi.   It was presided over by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, in the presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, and all department and branch directors at Awqaf across the UAE.
Dr al Mazrouei began the workshop by hailing the continuous support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. Their support had great impact on upgrading the services provided by Awqaf to the public through Friday sermons, Official Fatwa Centre, preaching lessons, and the various media outlets, Dr al Mazrouei underlined.
Dr al Mazrouei extended sincere thanks and appreciation to the President and members of the Federal National Council. He praised their focus on enhancing services provided by Awqaf in diverse fields, stressing that Awqaf appreciated and paid attention to their remarks and recommendations and that it worked on achieving them in a way that would meet their ambitions and realise their desired goals.
Dr al Mazrouei reviewed the remarks and recommendations given to Awqaf by the FNC in its 11th meeting of the third ordinary session of its 15th legislative chapter, which was held last week. The meeting was designated to discuss the policy of Awqaf.  Dr al Mazrouei confirmed that all FNC's remarks and recommendations inspired Awqaf to accelerate the accomplishment of its strategic and operational strategic plans. He praised the significant role played by the FNC in providing guidelines and directives that were in the best interest of the UAE and its citizens.
 













