addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, emphasised that Awqaf, by unifying sermons, succeeded in preventing any extremist ideology from infiltrating these sermons. Controls were developed by Awqaf to promote the concept of moderation in line with the teachings of Islam.
Dr Al Mazrouei noted that extremism and terrorism in Islamic societies resulted from irresponsible Fatwas and scholars who deluded people out of ignorance. He indicated that such irresponsibility prompted Awqaf to form the Official Fatwa Centre, a safe academic reference of fatwa in the UAE.
Dr Al Mazrouei's remarks came in the context of his speech during the annual gathering themed "Love and Belonging to the Nation and Loyalty to the Leadership," organised by Awqaf to honour its staff. The gathering was held at the Armed Forces Club in the presence of Dr Farouk Hamada, the Religious Advisor at the Court of HH the Crown Prince, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the Director General of Awqaf, in addition to the executive directors, department and branch managers of Awqaf as well as all Awqaf's male and female staff across the UAE.
Endowment Projects
In his speech, Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei stated that Awqaf "currently implemented 45 endowment projects with a total cost of AED 700 million, including villas and residential complexes," indicating that when Awqaf was established, it owned only two projects.
Concerning Awqaf's efforts in supporting job Emiratisation, Dr al Mazrouei clarified that when Awqaf was established, it had 25 employees. Its efforts to achieve Emiratisation resulted in nationals comprising 95.6 per cent of the entire staff of Awqaf.
Support and Attention
Furthermore, Dr al Mazrouei praised the great support and continued attention paid to Awqaf's programs and projects by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Dr al Mazrouei congratulated Awqaf and its staff for winning the Prime Minister's Medal for Field Employee and for being classified within the top three ranks of the best practices in the category of Innovation in the 3rd edition of Emirates Government Excellence Award, which HH Sheikh Khalifa gave directive to change its name to Mohammed bin Rashid Government Excellence Award.
Public Contacts 
With regards to Awqaf's Fatwa Centre, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, asserted that the centre received an average of 1300 queries daily. Those were answered by 56 of the most elite scholars in addition to 3700 daily calls during Ramadan. "We can say that the people trust the religious reference in the country and the scholars who are responsible for issuing fatwas. The Islamic community in the UAE has become well acquainted about its religion and is contented with the fatwas," Dr al Kaabi added, noting that the UAE Fatwa centre is a unique Islamic reference in the Islamic world.
Dr al Kaabi highlighted that Awqaf is "a beacon of enlightenment for those who would like to practice religion in its moderate form, as ordered by Allah, the Most Exalted. There is no room for religious extremism. Our religion is a religion of mercy, moderation and tolerance. We are entrusted with this role as the officials of this entity. We pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us success in fulfilling this role."
 













