addthis_pub="newawqaf";















An agreement to build a large, integrated mosque in Bandar Malaysia was concluded in the presence of HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and HE Dato Sri Mohammad Najeeb Tun Abdul Razak, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, who is currently visiting the UAE.
The agreement came as a result of the strong and distinguished relations between the UAE and Malaysia, especially between Awqaf and Malaysia's Development Fund.
Under the agreement, which was signed in Al Mushrif Palace yesterday, Malaysia's Development Fund, as the main developer of Bandar Malaysia, will provide the project site, while Awqaf will fund the construction and design of the large mosque.
The agreement was signed by HE Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, and Mohammed Hazem Abdur Rahman, Chief Executive Officer of Malaysia's Development Fund, in the presence of Tan Sri Dato 'Seri Loden Wok Kamaruddin, Board Chairman of the Fund, and Datuk Esmi Ismail, Board Member of the Fund.
Project Model
Having signed the agreement, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, and HE Dato Sri Mohammad Najib Tun Abdul Razak, together with the attendees, viewed the project model and design, which was inspired by Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi. They also viewed pictures displaying the site on which the mosque would be constructed in Bandar Malaysia. The mosque will include an Islamic education centre equipped with the latest technologies and the Permata Centre for Talented Children.
On this occasion, HE Dato Sri Mohammad Najib Tun Abdul Razak highlighted the agreement's positive impact, saying, "This gift of establishing a mosque inspired by Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque strengthens the concept of tolerance, love and mutual understanding, and contributes to positive interaction. It reflects the deep good ties between Malaysia and the UAE and will further foster relations between the peoples of the two countries."
For his part, Dr Hamdan Musallam Al Mazroui, Chairman of Awqaf, emphasised that this partnership embodies Awqaf's commitment to spreading the values of tolerance, promoting religious awareness, and strengthening moderate Islamic discourse by constructing mosques and educational centres.
"We will cooperate with Malaysia's Development Fund to establish a centre that meets the needs of the community," he asserted.
The construction of Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque embodies national cultural values, which were established by the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may he rest in peace, and promotes the mutual respect, tolerance, and coexistence amongst the peoples. The program called Permata, "gem" in Malaysian, focuses on taking care of children, those being the wealth of the nation and one of its most important pillars. Moreover, it seeks to achieve comprehensive human development starting from an early age.
Dato Sri Mohammad Najib, as the Chairman of the Advisory Board of Malaysia's Development Fund, launched several programs and initiatives in the field of corporate social responsibility. Amongst such initiatives are a scholarship of RM 10 million to help qualified students of religious schools to enroll in universities, especially in the specialisations of medicine, pharmacology, and dentistry; a contribution of RM 20 million to develop the area of Jamk Kampung Baru Mosque in Kuala Lumpur to be a center for development in the region; and a special program for helping local community leaders, including Imams and mayors, to perform Hajj.
 













