addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of Awqaf's Mafhas al Qatah programme, Awqaf opened the mosque of the late Dr Rawda al-Mutawa in al Wathba. The opening occurred in the presence of HE Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf; Mohammed Obaid Rashid al Mazrouei, Executive Director for Islamic Affairs; Khalid Mohammed Saif al Neyadi, the Executive Director for Waqf Affairs, as well as a number of directors and employees at Awqaf. A group of worshippers and residents also attended to perform noon prayers in the mosque.
Dr al Mazrouei prayed to Allah, The Most Exalted, to continue bestowing HH good health and wellness upon Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, , and to protect him for the UAE government and people.
In regards to catering for and reconstructing the mosques, he praised the continuous attention and care by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. He also praised the kind and continuous directives of Their Highnesses to provide all the mosques' needs, hailing their great support of Awqaf and unremittent follow up of its programs and projects, which were implemented in line with its Cabinet-approved strategic plan.
Al Mazrouei highlighted the positive response of the benefactor citizens and residents to the Mafhas Al Qatah project, which is annually launched by Awqaf to contribute to mosques construction and follow up on their related needs.
He toured the Dr Rawda Al-Mutawa mosque, which was given its name by him . The name was given based upon the decision of Awqaf's Board to name new mosques after the UAE men and women who left solemn and indelible imprints through their efforts in serving the nation. the aim is to recognise their achievements.
"Such achievements should be brought into light for the present and coming generations so as to learn the stories of their forefathers, who have performed charitable and distinguished good deeds, contributing to the prosperity and development of our young country," Dr Al Mazrouei said, underlining that Dr Rawda al Mutawa had played a prominent role in defending women's rights and was interested in social activism and several important issues.
"She had a significant role in the National Committee to Combat Breast Cancer, as well as in establishing the programme entitled 'Creator' when she chaired the Executive Committee of Abu Dhabi Business Women Council. She also recorded numerous other achievements during her tenure in various organisations and entities at the UAE level," he added. 
For his part, Maaz Abdullah al Mutawa extended his sincere thanks and appreciation to every person that contributed to the construction of the mosque.  "Such contributions will, by Allah's favour, add to their good deeds. They reflect their love and appreciation for the services provided by the deceased at all levels. I extend many thanks to Awqaf for their charitable efforts and services, both at the UAE level and globally," he further noted.
The mosque is located in plot B15, Al Nahda Al Askariya, Al Wathba. It features a unique design combining traditional and local Emirati architectural methods, using modern technologies and building materials. A large space is allocated for car park. It is distinguished by the greenery surrounding the mosque and the water rationalisation systems, which are organised and distributed in the irrigation system.
The mosque consists of a hall that is designed to accommodate for 500 men, one more that accommodates up to 70 women in addition to corners for ablutions (wudu) and water closets for men and women equipped with state of the art means and fittings. Furthermore, it contains a one-bedroom accommodation for the Imam and another one for the Muezzin.
 













