addthis_pub="newawqaf";















During the ceremony celebrating the anniversary of Israa and Miraj, Dr Hamdan bin Musallam Al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, revealed that there are 30 Emirati male and female Muftis working at Awqaf. He noted that Awqaf accredited Bachelor, Master's and PhD study programmes for 109 Muftis in cooperation with Mohammed V University "Agdal" in Abu Dhabi.
The ceremony was held in the presence of Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, as well as executives, officials, and employees of Awqaf alongside a great number of people from all walks of life. The event began with a recitation of several verses from the holy Quran by preacher Omar Al Darie.
Then, HE Sheikh Talib Mohammed al Shehhi delivered a speech in which he extended Awqaf's sincere congratulations and blessings for this great occasion to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. A host of Emiratis and residents also attended the ceremony. 
Al Shehhi prayed to Allah, The Almighty, to continue blessing the President and Rulers of the Emirates with good health and wellness, and to protect and bless the UAE with security and safety under its wise leadership.
In his speech on this cherished anniversary, al Shehhi called for contemplating on the Sunnah of the Prophet pbuh and adherence to the Sunna's wisdom. He considered the Prophet's honourable biography to be an ideal example for all. Great effort must be exerted to love the Messenger of Allah pbuh by reviving his Sunna and following his guidance.
Al Shehhi pointed out that the biography of the Prophet pbuh is the source of righteous rulings, good manners and the decent treatment needed by scholars to learn the right science and to detect the meanings of jurisprudence.
Al Shehhi continued saying, "The UAE, which was established by the late father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, in line with the directives of its wise leadership, strives to highlight the gleaming civilised image of the last divine message brought by our Master Muhammad pbuh."
Al Shehhi emphasised that Awqaf took it upon itself to be a leading authority in developing and promoting the awareness of the community in accordance with the tolerant teachings of Islam, which realise the reality and understand the future. It does its duty of disseminating religious awareness with the aim of achieving the religion's objective of maintaining humanitarian principles and abandoning every aspect of violence and extremism, he explained.
He highlighted Awqaf's dedication to combatting extremism through the aspects of moderation maintained in Friday sermons and lessons at mosques, lectures, symposiums, community events, Quran memorisation centres and the community that is directed by the Official Fatwa Centre. Awqaf strives to disseminate love, coherence and cooperation amongst people, following in this the guidance of Allah's Messenger pbuh.
Afterwards, the preacher Abdur Rahman al Shams, Director of the Department of Preaching, delivered a speech in which he explained that Allah made such occasion dear to the hearts of the believers to increase their faith. Allah begins Surat Al-Israa, which is named after this occasion, with the word of praise (tasbeeh) to indicate that He - Glorified and Exalted is He - is above all defects and shortages and to prepare the listener to receive great news, implying the great power of the Speaker and the high standing of the person who is the subject matter of the verses.
Many other male and female preachers delivered speeches on this glorious occasion. They called upon of the audience to reflect and contemplate on Surat Al-Israa, and draw lessons from it; as it is the source of hope during times of trials and tribulations.
During the ceremony Awqaf issued a booklet about Israa and Miraj, which was distributed to all mosques and to the attendees. It included information on Israa and Miraj; its circumstances, paths and phases; the meeting between the Messenger of Allah pbuh and other Prophets in each Heaven; as well as several lessons taken from this precious and honourable occasion.
 On another level, the Ministry of Public Works in Ras al Khaimah organised a ceremony yesterday on the occasion of Israa and Miraj as part of its annual programme to celebrate religious occasions. The ceremony was attended by Eng. Abdullah al Kursi, Head of the Northern Region of the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry's staff.  The ceremony began with a recitation of several verses from the holy Quran followed by a lecture by Sheikh Dr Ahmed Mohammed Fal, in which he narrated the events of Israa and Miraj and highlighted the exemplary lessons inspired from this great event. He emphasised that one should reflect on all stages of this blessed journey.
Dr Fal affirmed that Islam attributes a great status to the anniversary of Israa and Miraj. Its significance also stems from being a reference showing the standing attributed to the Messenger of Allah pbuh by Allah, the Most Exalted, and by the prophets and messengers, being their Imam. It also showed the great standing of Jerusalem as the landing place of the divine messages, the direction (Qiblah) of the prophets, and the ascension and dissension site of the Prophet pbuh.
On this occasion, HE Dr Abdullah al Belheif al Nuaimi, Minister of Public Works, congratulated HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates, and the UAE people. He prayed to Allah to continue blessing the UAE with security and safety.
At the end of the ceremony, Eng. Abdullah al Kursi presented appreciation certificate to Sheikh Ahmed Mohammed Fal in appreciation of his efforts and the cooperation of Awqaf in RAK in organising this lecture.
On another note, the Abu Dhabi Police General Headquarters celebrated the anniversary of Israa and Miraj. The Abu Dhabi Police Clubs and Sports Activities Department delivered a religious lecture by the Preacher Burhan Bazir Bashi, from the Community Police Departmentat the Abu Dhabi national Theatre in the presence of a number of officers and individuals.
Bazir Bashi said that Israa and Miraj had a great standing in Islam due to the divine honour attributed to the Messenger of Allah in it. He indicated the great standing of Jerusalem as the landing place of the divine messages, the direction (Qiblah) of the prophets, and the ascension and dissension place of the Prophet pbuh.
 













