addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf will open 24 new mosques in the Western Region of Al Ain this year, according to Abdul Aziz al Ghaithi, Director of the Awqaf branch at Al Ain. He clarified that these mosques were distributed among the areas of Al Yahr, Ramah, Al Saad and Abu Samra. Construction works were completed at a rate ranging between 15 to 20 per cent at some sites, while some were almost completed.
Awqaf began renovation works of 15 deteriorated mosques. Al Ghaithi confirmed that Awqaf succeeded in building and renovating 458 mosques in Al Ain, while there were 700 mosques in which the Friday prayers were held, other than those in which the congregational prayers were only held.
He underlined that the new mosques featured high quality to provide the worshippers with the highest service level in accordance with the requirements of Abu Dhabi Council for Urban Planning. 
The new mosques are integrated mosques meeting the needs of the worshippers. They feature the Islamic architectural style, which combines traditional and modern design, he noted.
Al Ghaithi further stated that the recently constructed mosques contained flexible grounds under the rugs for the convenience of the worshippers and areas for ablution (wudu) and other services.
Mosque construction is dependent on regional needs which are defined according to studies. In case a donor applies for constructing a mosque the municipality would decide on the location. In the event that the region where the donor wanted to construct the mosque was inappropriate, another location would be chosen, al Ghaithi explained.
He added that Al Ain witnessed remarkable expansions in the construction of integrated residential complexes in many areas, which requires Awqaf to build mosques in such areas to meet the needs of their inhabitants in cooperation with the municipality.
The western sector contains 250 mosques, including those where the Friday and congregational prayers are held, while others are confined to congregational prayers. Currently, 24 new mosques were constructed, including 12 mosques in Al Tahr, 4 in Al Salamat, 3 in Abu Samra, 2 in Ramah, 2 mosques in Al Khazna and a mosque in As-Sad.
Al Ghaithi indicated that there are 700 mosques offering Friday prayers. Last year, 20 mosques were opened upon the directives of the wise leadership. He pointed out that Awqaf worked on constructing new mosques as an alternative to the old ones and that 15 mosques are currently under construction.
 













