addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Director General, met with all Imams, preachers and Muezzins in each mosque at Umm Al Quwain and Ajman. The meeting was held at the Cultural Centre of Umm Al Quwain, in the presence of Awqaf's executives and branch directors across the Emirates. It is aimed to review the steps taken to receive mosque goers during the Holy Month of Ramadan. 
At the beginning of the meeting, Dr al Kaabi prayed to Allah to continue blessing good health and wellness to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him; HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai; Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. He also congratulated the Emirati people on the advent of the Holy Month.
Dr al Kaabi urged the Imams, preachers and Muezzins to make mosques oases of faith, knowledge and mutual studies of Quran and beacons of guidance, civilisation and worship so as to offer an environment conducive for worship.
"Awqaf recognises the great care given by the UAE leadership to mosques and appreciates its great and continuous support in promoting the mission of Imams, preachers and Muezzins with a view to exalt the rites of Allah and provide the finest forms of communication with the public.
Dr al Kaabi called on the Imams to pray to Allah to grant good health and wellness to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, the Vice President, the Rulers of the Emirates and the Crown Prince and to guide them to success. This is because their prayers for the ruler have great importance for Allah and the people, he explained.
Dr al Kaabi further called upon the Imams to abide by the methodology and mission of Awqaf to develop religious awareness based on moderation and to abandon all forms of extremism, partisanship and other affiliations that are not appropriate for the status of the Imam in the society. He emphasised that Imams, preachers and Muezzins should set an example both in thought and practice.
Dr al Kaabi pointed out the kindness of HH the President, may Allah protect him, in hosting elite scholars and intellectuals during Ramadan. He called upon the Imams to pay attention to their sermons and prepare the public to derive benefits from their experience and knowledge.
He also instructed them to maintain the mosques by daily preaching lessons after Al Asr prayer and to nurture the values of Islam in the minds and souls of people using Part II of the Lessons at Mosques (Doroos Al Masajid), which was issued by Awqaf. These were published in a deluxe edition so that a lesson would not exceed 8 minutes without prolongation, boredom or improper summarisation.
Dr al Kaabi stressed that Imams should not prolong the Taraweeh prayers, calling for moderation and leniency with worshipers, women and children. Awqaf allowed prolonged Qiyam prayers in certain mosques in the city. Any member of the public who would like to perform prolonged prayer should approach such specialised mosques.
Dr al Kaabi underscored that beggars would not be allowed in mosques, especially during Ramadan, asserting that the UAE government was always generous in providing the people with all the decent living requirements. He also stressed that it is not allowed to distribute money inside the mosques.
At the end of the meeting, Dr al Kaabi gave the Imams and preachers the opportunity for open dialogue. He promised the Imams and Muezzins that Awqaf would provide them with decent accommodation near the mosque, organise qualifying courses needed by them as well as specialised intellectual lectures to enrich their culture and keep them abreast of the latest developments in Islamic thought and Fatwa.
 













