addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. He opened His holy Book with these Ayas: "[All] praise is [due] to Allah, Lord of the worlds, The Entirely Merciful, the Especially Merciful, Sovereign of the Day of Recompense." (Al-Fatiha: 2-4). The first thing He enjoined upon His Creation was to praise Him: "[All] praise is [due] to Allah, who created the heavens and the earth." (Al-Anaam: 1). Praising Allah is also the last thing that the believers will say on the Day of Resurrection: "and you will see the angels surrounding the Throne, exalting [Allah] with praise of their Lord. And it will be judged between them in truth, and it will be said, '[All] praise to Allah, Lord of the worlds." (Az-Zumar: 75).
I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him is [due all] praise in the first [life] and the Hereafter. And His is the [final] decision, and to Him you will be returned (Al-Qasas: 70). I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the most forgiving amongst his people. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows, I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High, in line with his orders: "and it will be said to those who feared Allah, 'What did your Lord send down?' They will say, '[That which is] good.' For those who do good in this world is good; and the home of the Hereafter is better. And how excellent is the home of the righteous." (An-Nahl: 30).
O the People of Quran,
Allah, the Almighty, has sent down the glorious Quran to His Prophet Muhammad pbuh, a Book that is righteous and magnificent. He says, "falsehood cannot approach it from before it or from behind it; [it is] a revelation from a [Lord who is] Wise and Praiseworthy." (Fussilat: 42). He the Most Exalted has also made the Quran a guide and a light to the pious, and a cure to the souls and hearts. Allah says, "O mankind, there has to come to you instruction from your Lord and healing for what is in the breasts and guidance and mercy for the believers." (Yunus: 57).
Whoever reads the Quran, will see, by Allah's grace, his good deeds multiplied and his status raised in degrees. The Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever recites a letter from Allah's Book, then he receives the reward from it, and the reward of ten the like of it. I do not say that Alif Lam Mim is a letter, but Alif is a letter, Lam is a letter and Mim is a letter."
On its own merits, it is a blessed book that Allah has ordered us to read and understand deeply the meanings of its verses, as told in: "[This is] a blessed Book which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that they might reflect upon its verses and that those of understanding would be reminded." (Sad: 29). The people of understanding are those of intellect who ponder over the Quran with their heart fully submitted and their skin relaxed. About them, Allah, the Almighty, says, "Allah has sent down the best statement: a consistent Book wherein is reiteration. The skins shiver therefrom of those who fear their Lord; then their skins and their hearts relax at the remembrance of Allah." (Az-Zumar: 23).
O Believers,
There are certain Suras in the holy Quran that our guide Muhammad pbuh gave a special attention, owing to their immense virtues and blessings. Thus, he urged us to recite these Suras more and further reflect upon their meanings. One such Sura is Al Mulk, which the Messenger of Allah did not sleep until he has read it.
Following his guidance, the Companions, may Allah be pleased with them, were also keen to recite it. It was narrated that Abdullah Ibn Masood, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "At the time of the Messenger of Allah pbuh we used to call it al-Maniaah (that which protects). Whoever recites it every night has done very well and become more fragrant."
Indeed, on the Day of Judgment, Surat Al Mulk intercedes for those who used to recite it until they are forgiven and entered into Paradise. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "There is a Sura in the Quran of thirty Ayas, which kept interceding for a man until his sins were forgiven. This Surah is 'Blessed is He in Whose Hand is the dominion,' (Surat Al-Mulk)." In another relation, he pbuh said, "defended its reciter until he was entered into Paradise."
On the same matter, it was narrated that Humaid ibn Abdul Rahman Ibn Awf, may Allah have mercy on him, said, "(Reciting) 'say, 'He is Allah, [who is] One," is equal to reciting one third of the Quran. And Surat 'Blessed is He in Whose Hand is the dominion,' intercedes (i.e. defends those who used to recite it)." Thus, whoever is diligent in reciting the Surat Al Mulk, will, by Allah's favour, have a defender on the Day of Judgment. 
Dear Muslims, 
Allah, the Almighty, opened the Surat Al Mulk by saying, "blessed is He in whose hand is dominion, and He is over all things competent." (Al-Mulk: 1), highlighting the need to praise Him, the Most High, the Owner of Sovereignty. He is worthy of praising for He gives sovereignty to whom He wills and all the affairs of His Creation are dominated by His command. With His Will, they are managed and with His Wisdom arranged.
Indeed, exalted is He who "arranges [each] matter; He details the signs that you may, of the meeting with your Lord, be certain." (Ar-Raad: 2).
Furthermore, Surat Al Mulk relates that Allah, the Most Sublime, has blessed mankind with the worldly life and ordained them to lead it with goodness and righteousness. The Almighty says, "[He] who created death and life to test you [as to] which of you is best in deed - and He is the Exalted in Might, the Forgiving." (Al-Mulk: 2). 
In this sense, this Aya emphasises that deeds are assessed in accordance to their quality and degree of perfection rather than the quantity of such deeds. Therefore, the Most Exalted did not say: to test you as to which of you is has done more deeds.
In further indication to the importance of perfecting one's job, Allah, the Most Gracious, then described the flawlessness of His work and the magnificent harmony in His Creation. He says, "[and] who created seven heavens in layers. You do not see in the creation of the Most Merciful any inconsistency. So return [your] vision [to the sky]; do you see any breaks?" (Al-Mulk: 3).
Truly, the system of Creation is one into which neither defect nor flaw may find its way, as evidenced in this Aya: "[it is] the work of Allah, who perfected all things." (An-Naml: 88). Reflecting upon Allah's work, one will learn to do their work to the possible best. Thus, people from all walks of life must strive to deliver the best job they can offer, each in their position, be it a physician, an engineer, a teacher, an employee or a student. 
In fact, excellence is amongst the most important elements of progress and prosperity. One has no reason not to perform their work sincerely for Allah, the Almighty, has arranged the earth and made it subservient to man for them to populate it, build it with good deeds and earn their living in righteous manner.
Rich meanings of this sort are related in Surat Al Mulk, in which Allah, the Most Exalted says, "it is He who made the earth tame for you - so walk among its slopes and eat of His provision - and to Him is the resurrection." (Al-Mulk: 15).
O Servants of Allah, Other teachings that can be learned from Surat Al-Mulk is the value of fearing Allah. It reminds us about the reward of those who observe Allah in public and in private and, thus, are righteous in words and deeds. Allah, the Almighty says, "indeed, those who fear their Lord unseen will have forgiveness and great reward." (Al-Mulk: 12). 
That is to say, those will be forgiven their sins and attain a great reward, being Paradise, which is the eternal dwelling of those "who feared the Most Merciful unseen and came with a heart returning [in repentance]." (Qaf: 33). Therein, they will be told, "enter it in peace. This is the Day of Eternity. They will have whatever they wish therein, and with Us is more." (Qaf: 34-35).  Thus, they enter Heaven being their everlasting home, safe from torture and cherishing countless provisions.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to make us amongst those who will enter Your Paradise and bless us with Your obedience. O Allah, we implore to You to also make the blessed Quran the spring of our hearts and a light for chests. 
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Almighty, as it ought to be, and contemplate on the signs that Allah has related in Surat Al Mulk as an evidence of His great powers, compassion and mercy towards His servants.
The blessed Sura reminds man that Allah, the Almighty, is the One Who created them and endowed them with hearing, seeing, and hearts so that they may use these bounties in development and good deeds. The Most Exalted says, "say, 'It is He who has produced you and made for you hearing and vision and hearts; little are you grateful." (Al-Mulk: 23).
In this sense, in the closing Aya of Surat Al Mulk, Allah, the Most Sublime, urges mankind to admit to His great competence, saying, "say, 'Have you considered: if your water was to become sunken [into the earth], then who could bring you flowing water?" (Al-Mulk: 30).
Indeed, reflecting upon the Quran's blessed Ayas and pondering over the signs of the mercy of our Gracious, Compassionate Lord, will definitely lead us to sincerely recite by tongue and heart this Aya from Surat Al Mulk: "say, 'He is the Most Merciful; we have believed in Him, and upon Him we have relied." (Al-Mulk: 29).
All of us are, therefore, urged to read the Book of Allah and understand its meanings as well as memorise its Ayas constantly. We should also ensure to recite Surat Al Mulk and teach our children to recite it and learn from its precious lesson that we may win Allah's great reward and be amongst those who enter His Paradise.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, grant us success to be amongst those who are tolerant.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to help us learn from the Quran that which we did not know and make in it a reminder for us of that which we forgot. O Allah, please also bless us with the ability to nicely read the Quran during the night and during the day, seeking Your satisfaction, O Lord of the World.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).  
 













