addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In implementation of its Cabinet-approved strategic plan, one of its goals being to serve the new areas with new mosques, Awqaf opened the thirty ninth mosque in al Musaffah industrial area. The new mosque accommodates up to five hundred worshipers and comprises a women's prayer room.
Present at the opening were HE Ali Khlfan al Mutawaa al Dhaheri, the businessman who donated for the construction of the mosque, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Awqaf's Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, and host of its officials alongside a large number of worshipers from the public.
The attendees performed al Maghreb prayer, the first prayer to be established in the mosque, expressing their delight with the opening of the mosque, an achievement that was cherished by the residents in the area.
The mosque was constructed in accordance with the architectural specifications and designs of Abu Dhabi Urban Council, considering the sustainability and energy conservation requirements. It features an architectural design that combines authentic Islamic heritage and UAE local architecture characteristics. Its minaret consists of three circular sections decorated with rectangular windows and ornamented stone carvings, while its roof is adorned with a large dome that gave the prayer hall an internal horizon, allowing day light and voice to distribute in a harmony that reflects the aesthetics of the Emirati traditional interior design. This is complemented with high walls that are beautified with long graceful windows that are distributed harmonically on the front, right and left sides of the building.
As for the entrance of the mosque, six steps lead to the façade that is designed with glamorous arcs ending with triangular angles, allowing the magnificent structure of the building to stand out and giving it a special solemnity as the worshipers ascend to it. In addition to that, all the walls feature stone carvings and are crowned with roof openings similar to those of al Hosn Palace. 
As attachment to the mosque, there are women's prayer room, two accommodations for Imam and Muezzin, in addition to the ablution areas and facilities for people with special needs.
 













