addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf and Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) aimed at allowing Awqaf to use the bank's electronic channels to collect its Waqf donations. The MoU serves in streamlining donation channels through ATMs, mobile banking applications and online banking.
Under the MoU, the Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB) will design and develop an electronic system for the collection of donations and provide an icon for the service on all its electronic channels. It will also open a bank account for each Waqf project to which the donated funds will be transferred respectively.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf, affirmed that Awqaf is keenly interested in finding channels that are conducive to enhance the proceeds of the Waqf fund resources, stressing that the MoU is part of previous and future initiatives that are aimed at increasing the number of charitable projects as well as their beneficiaries.
On the side line of the MoU signing, Dr al Kaabi pointed out that partnering with such a leading financial institution with a large customer base across the UAE as the ADIB, is a value addition in terms of promoting the culture of donation and the religious awareness amongst the community members. It will also contribute to instilling the Waqf tradition so as to achieve its religious objectives in serving the society, Dr al Kaabi added, stressing that Awqaf strives to elevate its performance in accordance with the world's best practices and latest technology.
"Through building such strategic partnerships and cooperating with competent institutions and entities, Awqaf seeks to enhance its role and optimise the achievement of its mission. Those are also considered as a qualitative addition and an opportunity for exchanging expertise in a manner to ultimately serve charitable work and uphold the concept and goals of social responsibility.
For his part, Abdul Rahman Abdullah, Head of Strategic Clients & Community Banking at Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank, said that the MoU came as part of ADIB's consistent efforts to support its customers and meet their needs. He noted that the bank will harness its electronic capabilities in facilitating the financial transactions related to donations and other services, highlighting ADIB's keen interest in offering services that are conducive to make the collection of donations easier for Awqaf and donors too.
"ADIB possesses a vast network comprising more than 770 ATMs, in addition to offering its clients online banking services and smart services via its smartphone app, allowing them secure and easy banking transactions," Abdullah concluded. 
 













