addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the International Tolerance Day, Awqaf organised, today, a large event for its Imams, preachers and Muezzins at the Abu Dhabi National Theatre. The event, held under the title "Tolerance: A nation's identity", was attended by Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf, Awqaf's officials, preachers and Imams of mosques in Abu Dhabi and its outskirts.
After the national anthem, the event started with a recitation from the Holy Quran, followed by a documentary video on UAE's efforts aimed at promoting the culture of tolerance starting from the era of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. This was, then, followed by a presentation on the anti-discrimination and anti-hatred law issued by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech addressing Imams, preachers and Muezzins, in which he said, "Modern indicators of development, stability and prosperity in our contemporary age have proved that a society which embraces the culture of tolerance will, definitely, be protected from the chaos that many communities are experiencing today."
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Thanks to Allah's grace and the wisdom of our leadership since the time of the founding leader Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, the UAE and all those living on its stable and prosperous land are cherishing the finest example of a happy life that is rich in cultural diversity."
Concerning the efforts aimed at instilling the principles of forbearance, exploring its horizons and promoting it throughout the public entities and institutions, Dr al Kaabi said: "As part of its strategy, Awqaf adopts tolerance as a way of thinking, a vision and a mission throughout all its pulpits and religious discourse, one that is open to life. It also adopts tolerance in all the conferences it holds and all the humanitarian and social studies it produces and publishes."
This is also seen in the culture of respect that is deeply rooted in the UAE towards the cultural and religious diversity of all the people who enter the country, whether for work, tourism or business. Such tolerance is also embraced towards all economic, educational and humanitarian institutions existing the UAE, those being supporting elements that are conducive to enrich the country's growth, Dr al Kaabi added.
"The UAE astute leadership nurtures such diverse social fabric and our religion provides it with an ideal environment to flourish based on the values of constructive co-existence between multicultural humankind. Indeed, cultural exchange is key to building civilisations. Moreover, life will not develop or prosper except through making best use of all the human repository of innovation and ambitions," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
"The UAE prides itself for setting an example for other countries to emulate in religious tolerance and civilised co-existence between all constituents of society. This was testified by several celebrities and forums on the global arena. Furthermore, its tolerant and moderate approach ranked at the top of happiness indicators in terms of intellectual practice and daily life dealings with people," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
He continued saying, "Dear audience, please know that Muslim scholars and Imams need more than anyone else to adopt the culture of tolerance and lead the march of forbearance. This is because one of the key potentials of a religious scholar is to make the religion of Allah close to all people's heart and mosques oases of faith that attracts all members of the community. The essence of Islam is mercy, the latter being the basis of tolerance and cooperation in righteousness and piety."
Dr al Kaabi explained that the mission of a scholar, Imam or preacher is to disseminate knowledge about Allah, the Almighty, and His Messenger pbuh amongst people, using means that may make such a mission successful. The most effective of them, he said, is to invite people to the way of their Lord is with wisdom and good advice as Allah, the Almighty, says "invite to the way of your Lord with wisdom and good instruction."
Meanwhile, inviting people to the way of their noble Prophet pbuh should be done in leniency and kindness, following in this his lenient approach as he said, "Whenever leniency is found in anything it adds to its beauty." Indeed, the Messenger of Allah pbuh set the finest example to emulate in mercy and tolerance as a Prophet, a leader and in calling to the way of Allah, Dr al Kaabi further clarified.
"Tolerance means loyalty, purity of the heart and compassion. It strengthens the bonds between people, brings them closer to one another and thereby become more cooperative. Truly, when one possesses the confidence in the righteousness of their approach and the nobility of their goals, they will, by Allah's grace, establish the loftiest cultural, humanitarian and social models," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
"Let us, then, dear audience, adopt forbearance as a fundamental value in building the human civilisation that we all look for, one that is also the main objective that our religion Islam seeks to achieve in this worldly life," concluded Dr al Kaabi.
Elaborating further on the topic, the event also brought to the stage preachers Omar al Derei, Director of the Official Fatwa Centre, and Abdul Rahman al Shamsi, Director of the Preaching Department, in a seminar about tolerance.
Preacher al Derei talked about the tents of tolerance in the holy Quran, while al Shamsi presented a heart touching insights into the life of the Prophet pbuh and his relationship with his neighbours from other religions, bringing into memory his famous saying to the people in Mecca: "Go your way, for you are free."
For her part, preacher Maria al Hitali addressed the principle of tolerance adhered to in the UAE in a lecture titled "Tolerance in the UAE: A joint responsibility".
During the event, Dr al Kaabi signed along with all the Imams on the Imams' Charter of Tolerance. The charter provides for the commitment to abandoning any statement, periphrasis or sign that may connote to discrimination, violence or hatred.  It also calls Imams to adhere to the UAE tolerant policy, preserve the stability and solidarity of the community and avoid any word or deed that may form a threat to the safety and security of the community. It further stressed the need for all Friday speeches, lessons at mosques and religious lectures to be free from any indication to any form of discrimination, extremism or hatred.
As part of the event, Awqaf handed over copy of the federal law number (2) for 2015 related to combatting discrimination and bigotry to each of the Imams and preachers.
 













