addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Supreme Member of the Council and Ruler of Ajman inaugurated Hajir Quran Memorisation Centre at al Talla area in Ajman. Present at the opening were Sheikh Rashid bin Humaid al Nuaimi, Chairman of Ajman Municipality and Planning Department, and Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf.
After unveiling the plaque to open the centre, Sheikh Humaid toured along with the accompanying dignitaries the centre where the officials briefed them on its goals and services.
Care
Commenting on the occasion, HH the Ruler of Ajman hailed the care given the holy Quran memorization centres and lessons at mosques by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council.
Sheikh Humaid further expressed his appreciation of the increasing interest shown by Emiratis in building Waqf Quran memorisation centres in support of Awqaf's mission. He also praised Awqaf's Awqaf's efforts in managing the Quran memorisation centres and sessions at mosques. 
Support
For his part, Dr al Kaabi, highly valued the care and support by the UAE wise leadership to the Book of Allah and its interest in instilling its values and instructions in the hearts of the younger generations, citing the role played by the holy Quran in bringing up generations that memorise it, know its sciences and adhere to its good manners.
Dr al Kaabi further hailed the generous and unremittent support by HH Sheikh Humaid to the houses of Allah and Quran memorisation centres.
"As part of Awqaf's efforts to attract Emirati students to learn Quran and Tajweed and to qualify Quran memorisers, it sponsored the initiative of establishing model Quran memorisation centres across the UAE," Dr al Kaabi underlined. 
He futher commended on the initiative of Yusuf Sultan al Ajmani, the establisher of the Al Talla charitable project, to construct the Hajir Quranic centre, which is built on a 22,000 square-foot plot, donated by HH the Ruler of Ajman, noting that the centre is destined to serve the residents of Al Talla and neighbouring areas.
"The centre consists of 10 classrooms that can accommodate up to 250 students and a multi-purpose theatre of 200 seats, in addition to offices for support services, Dr al Kaabi explained, highlighting that the centre is manned with highly qualified tutors and is provided with the best teaching curriculums. Transportation will be ensure for all students via air-conditioned buses," Dr al Kaabi said.
Gratitude
For his part, al Ajmani expressed his gratitude to HH Sheikh Humaid for the honour of his presence in the opening ceremony and his unlimited support to charitable and social work. He also valued the role of Awqaf in taking care of the houses of Allah and Quran memorisation centres.
The ceremony was attended by brigadier-general Saleh al Matroushi, Director General of Civil Defense in Ajman, Abdul Rahman Mohammed al Nuaimi, Director General of Ajman Municipality and Planning Department, Ali Hasan al Hamadi, Director of Ajman Educational Zone, Obeid Hamad al Zaabi, Director of Awqaf in Ajman, Tariq bin Ghulaita, Director of the office of HH the Ruler of Ajman and number of government officials along with a host of other dignitaries.
 













