addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf held a workshop on innovation for its staff at mosques who assume the tasks of the al Imam al Jamia across the country. Held two days back at Sofitel hotel in Abu Dhabi, the workshop was attended by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, Awqaf's senior officials, Imams and Khateebs who are involved with the al Imam al Jamia job.  
Addressing the participants in the workshop, Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he hailed the continuous support to the role of mosques by the UAE wise leadership. He also praised the great support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed the need to make each mosque in the UAE an ideal oasis for moderate religious discourse, noting that the UAE has set a leading example in instilling such modern religious discourse that is based on moderation, tolerance and openness to the contemporary culture and the common human values.
Dr al Kaabi, then, urged Imams to fulfil the scholastic and national responsibilities that were entrusted to them by consistently developing the performance of Khateebs, citing the role of Friday speeches as a fundamental weekly platform for disseminating the civilised values and teachings of Islam amongst the members of the community. This is conducive to fortify the community against all foreign and misleading ideologies, he explained.
"This brings into focus the importance of continuous training for Khateebs who need further skill refining in order to elevate the level of their performance in terms of language skills, use of correct evidences and open-mindedness," underscored Dr al Kaabi.
"Each one of us is required to understand that we carry a global message, one that UAE innovates and disseminates worldwide through media outlets, social media channels and smart technology," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
For his part, Nasser al Maamari, Director of Mosque Department, delivered a creative presentation on the smart mosques project, which has been implemented in three mosques as a pilot phase. The mosques are Al Haq in Masdar City, Ahmed Jumaa Al Zaabi mosque in Shakhboot City and Al Fat'h in Abu Dhabi, he explained.
Such innovative project resulted in the achievement of an annual savings of amounts ranging between AED 30000 to 50000. This means that, through rationalisation of energy consumption, Awqaf will be able to save about AED 150 million on yearly basis in around 5000 mosques across the country, al Maamari further clarified.
Awqaf seeks to best use the latest smart technology in transforming its mosques to smart ones at a minimal cost. This includes rationalising the consumption of water and electricity, prompt repair of any defects, preserving environment, facilitating the work of Imams, further improving security areas and promoting the level of services offered to worshipers.
More to the point, the workshop addressed the concept of innovation, differentiating between innovation and creativity, innovation steps, qualities of innovators and innovation obstacles. Topics also included benchmarking successful examples in the world of innovation, phases of innovation and how these are connected to mosques, innovation in relation to the tasks of the al Imam al Jami, exploring capabilities required for innovation, innovation as a factor in stimulating positivity amongst worshipers, the basics of brainstorming sessions and its role in inspiring solutions for problems.   
 













