addthis_pub="newawqaf";















During the UAE Innovation Week held at Masdar City in Abu Dhabi, Awqaf unveiled a number of new innovative solutions that are under development in a number of its departments. The new solutions are consistent with the rapid developments on the modern technology arena, and feature a qualitative addition to the services offered by Awqaf to the public from all nationalities and across all age groups.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed the importance of promoting innovation spirit amongst the Awqaf's employees, citing that development, upgrade and innovation are key to the work style of Awqaf.
In his statement on the side lines of the UAE Innovation Week, Dr al Kaabi said, "UAE's competent authorities, through their executive system, made best use of the modern technology and implemented it across the public entities, ministries and institutions. The positive outcomes of such approach can be clearly seen in the easiness of transaction processing, efficiency in service delivery and in keeping in pace with the spirit of the contemporary age."
"Thanks to its unremitting efforts in keeping synchronised with the modern technology and spirit as well as employing it in the correct way, the UAE guaranteed an advanced position amongst other nations. It also managed to embed innovation as a culture in day-to-day life of the UAE community members, especially the youths. As a result, technology and innovation became amongst the fundamental factors that contributed to the UAE success and its advanced position amongst the countries of the world," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
He further highlighted Awqaf's keen interest in keeping abreast with the latest developments in the field of technology and best using it across its departments as part of the package of innovative solutions that will uncovered, the aim being to serve Islam and Muslims from all nationalities in the UAE. 
At its stand at Masdar City's innovation week event, Awqaf exhibited a new application for memorisation and reciting of the holy Quran as well as teaching its rules. The app, which is still in the testing phase, focuses on using WhatsApp, available in smartphones, in learning Quranic teachings. Through the app, users can connect via the phone and around the clock with the holy Quran tutors at Awqaf.
The app offers information, corrects mistakes and answers enquiries related to memorisation of the holy Quran. Users will also be able to use WhatsApp to send audio messages and receive the relevant answers, a feature that will help them learn the correct way to recite the holy Quran.
Other innovations presented by Awqaf included a feature targeting people with hearing or visual impairment. The technology will either transform the stories about charitable work, such as "Whoever guides someone to do good will get a reward similar to the one who performs it," into a movie for those with hearing disability, or into a text written using Braille system for those with visual impairment. The move comes in the framework of a long plan that will be executed by Awqaf to serve the people with special needs, the aim being to help them attain every knowledge about charitable work and Waqf.
Awqaf's innovation stand brought into light as well its smart mosque project. It demonstrated how Awqaf, in its new mosques, used methods to rationalise energy consumption and provide facilitated pathways for those with special needs and the elderly people, in addition to supplying water with suitable temperatures during Summer and Winter while ensuring water saving.
Furthermore, Awqaf presented its recent initiative related to providing sanitized and healthy Miswaks at its mosques. Such Miswaks are extracted from the Arak tree. It also displayed an infographic film about the correct way and required documents for one to establish Waqf with no difficulties nor errors.   
 













