addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of its interaction with the innovation week launched by the UAE wise leadership, Awqaf continues to hold workshops on innovation for its main departments on daily basis. As such, following to the two workshops it organised for Quran memorisation centres and smart mosques, the Preaching department at Awqaf organised a workshop for all preachers across the UAE in presence of Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
Inaugurating the workshop Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he urged scholars, Muftis and preachers to appreciate the blessings of prosperity and stability cherished by the UAE under its wise leadership, one that is leading life in the country towards such blessings.
Dr al Kaabi then called on the audience to consistently elevate the level of their performance by arising from conventionality to renewal, and from renewal to innovation and excellence. He hailed, on the occasion, the fundamental role of the UAE wise leadership in instilling the principles of excellence and innovation in all the public entities, making them a firm culture deeply rooted in the society.
"Innovation comes only through rich and positive knowledge, which is in turn an outcome of continuous improvement and development in the way of thinking, practice, analysis and creativity. All these are amongst the most important tools of a scholar or a preacher. This is because your words, dear gentlemen, have a gracious impact on the community and will gain the acceptance and acknowledgement of its interested educated members, should they touch in them soundness, objectivity and aspects of the modern culture that complements our great cultural, religious and civilised heritage," explained Dr al Kaabi.
"While a preacher should call for the way of the Prophet pbuh, they should first set an example of his noble character for others to emulate. In this regard, dear scholars, you are the most competent amongst people in the art of oratory, for you possess the ability to illustrate and analyse the real life matters and seek for the best and most perfect in theory as well as in practice," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
Dr al Kaabi concluded saying, "Thus, you are required to offer the public glimpses of innovation and excellence in such values as mercy, kindness, moderation and avoiding extremism and hatred. Be a shining example in best using the smart technology in serving religion and its values in an innovative and pioneering manner that is conducive to promote the principles of moderation and tolerance, being the essence of our religion, and ultimately be accepted by the public." 
 













