addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Amidst an Emirati national environment that is pioneering in all performance initiatives and indicators, and just like a palm tree that grows day on day, Awqaf is flourishing day after day in the field of competitiveness, innovation and quality, driven in this by its Cabinet-approved strategic plan. The foremost amongst its achievements in this regard is obtaining an international certificate in innovation management, the first worldwide to obtain such certification. 
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed that nurturing innovation at Awqaf comes in response to the wise directives in areas of knowledge management, science, technology and innovation by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, HH Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
"Indeed, excellence is the correct way towards forming a future that is conducive to lead the UAE towards achieving comprehensive development and attaining a leading position on the international arena. From this perspective, Awqaf's integrated work system embodies the UAE's vision in upholding our authentic values and the objectives of our noble religion, meeting, at the same time, aspirations of Emiratis in a further happy and more pioneering future," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Awqaf obtained the European Innovation Management Standard CEN/TS 16555-1 certificate after meeting the relevant requirements set by the standard, thereby becoming the first government religious entity in the world to obtain such a certificate. While receiving the certificate, Dr al Kaabi pointed out that Awqaf has laid down a clear strategy aimed at offering the appropriate environment and the necessary support that is conducive to boost engagement of all its personnel in suggesting and developing ideas and executing them in an innovative manner that falls in framework of the UAE 2021 vision.
"Obtaining such a certificate is a great success that was achieved thanks to the support and care given by the UAE wise leadership and a translation of its insightful vision on ground. It is also in line with the UAE's outstanding accomplishments in all fields," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
"This achievement is the fruits of the loyalty and devotion shown by all Awqaf's members across the UAE, as well as its partnerships with innovation leaders locally and internationally. Credit also goes to the dedication and passion witnessed at all Awqaf's departments, which is positively reflected in the continuous improvement of the services it offers to the public, thus, fulfilling the trust attributed to Awqaf by the UAE leadership and members of the community," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
Worth mentioning, Awqaf had attained dozens of local and international medals and awards in such areas as mosque management, using modern technology systems, management of the holy Quran memorisation via smartphones and the best religious achievements and practices in the world.
 













