addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf continues its participation in the UAE Innovation Week by organising a number of events, of which holding the first innovation symposium for its Department of Research and Censorship of Religious Publications. Participants in the symposium, held yesterday in Abu Dhabi, included a host of Awqaf's scholars and researchers across the UAE. It was attended by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Executive Director for Religious Affairs, and a number of Awqaf's senior officials.
After the national anthem and recitation from the holy Quran, the meeting commenced with a video on the concept of innovation and a brief about the sections under Awqaf's department of research and censorship of religious publications. It also presented the researches, studies, books and topics published by the department during 2016. Such achievements are valuable for those interested in reading and reflecting upon the religious fields of knowledge and the values of Islam.
The meeting then brought to the stage Dr al Kaabi who delivered a speech about innovation in the Islamic knowledge system and its contributions to the human civilisation in science, art and culture. He further praised the UAE wise leadership for providing the UAE and Emirati community with innovative environment that is aimed at building a prosperous future full of cultural achievements that are based on advanced modern scientific methodology.
The most prominent of such achievements, he said, is the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, to make 2016 a year of reading. Those also include the future plans laid down by the UAE's astute leadership and the innovative accomplishments achieved so far. Such achievements are conducive to motivate us to look for a further bright, prosperous, stable and happy future, he added. 
"The Department of Research and Censorship of Religious Publications at Awqaf is amongst the departments that carry a big responsibility in instilling knowledge seeking and innovation principles. This is because innovation, in its core, relies on deep understanding and continuous education about the human cultural achievements, locally and internationally, followed by developing such achievements, analysing them and ultimately innovating," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
He continued saying, "As a matter of fact, a researcher will only obtain a Master's or Ph.D. degree should his/her research be innovative, distinctive and unique. For this reason, we want you to transform the traditional knowledge system into one that keeps pace with the human development; one that is based on originality, yet keeps pace with modernity. This way, the religious knowledge disseminated by Awqaf will be more persuasive and entertaining to those who seek such knowledge from its channels, including mosques and the holy Quran memorisation centres. The same applies to the religious knowledge and values that Awqaf disseminate through the various media outlets."
"Your department should, therefore, strive to attract holders of Master's and Ph.D. degree in order to participate in its research activities. You are also required to build communication bridges with local and international research institutions in order to keep abreast of the latest developments in the field of innovation management as well as the knowledge and cultural achievements, especially the religious one. Remember, as well, to highlight women contributions in the field of Islamic research and studies. Indeed, we take pride of our female scholars' for their qualitative additions in religious affairs," Dr al Kaabi further underscored.
"We would like to hear and see new and modern thoughts and publications. Your wise leadership, dear researchers and scholars, has harnessed all capabilities for you. So, you are urged to seize the opportunity by making best use of such capabilities for serving the higher interests of our country and community. To achieve this, a committee of experts should be formed in order to follow up on innovative initiatives and raise its report to the higher management on monthly basis," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
It is worth mentioning that the department of research defined three goals for the symposium, the first of which being to develop a strategy for issuing pioneering world-class studies and publications aimed at promoting the moderate and modern religious culture. The second goal is to instil the culture of innovation at Awqaf, and the third to discuss obstacles and challenges faced by the department. 
The participants, then, conducted a discussion session under the title "Publications planned for 2017", followed by a session on "Innovative topics and publication means."
 













