addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf honoured its excelling employees working at its offices in Sharjah, Ajman and Umm al Quwain. 
The honouring came during the annual gathering that Awqaf organised under the motto "In love of and loyalty to the UAE and its wise leadership" at Hajir Quran memorisation centre in Ajman in presence of Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, alongside its department managers.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr al Kaabi highlighted the great support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. Thanks to their support, Awqaf succeeded in realising remarkable achievements over a short period of time, attaining thereby the public's satisfaction, Dr al Kaabi added.
"As a result, the UAE is now known globally for its moderate religious discourse and has become a role model for tolerance and peaceful co-existence amongst the diverse nationalities, religions and sects on its land," Dr al Kaabi further underlined.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Awqaf's honouring of its distinguished employees is based on the directives of the UAE wise leaders to nurture the culture of excellence and innovation in all the local and federal public entities. It is also based on Awqaf's strategic plan that is aimed at creating a competitive environment at all its offices across the emirates."
Dr al Kaabi also hailed the efforts exerted by all Awqaf's employees and valued their loyalty, determination, vigour and creativity, calling all of them to shoulder their responsibilities, work in team spirit and pursue excellence and innovation. He highlighted, in this regard, the importance of reading and research in enriching knowledge, expanding perception and nurturing creativity and innovation.
For her part, one of the honoured employees, delivered a speech in which she extended on behalf of Awqaf's staff heartfelt thanks, love and loyalty to the UAE astute leaders, renewing the pledge to them in exerting the best possible efforts, harnessing all knowledge and capabilities and continuously pursuing excellence in order to pay back to our beloved UAE.
Concluding the ceremony, Dr al Kaabi and the department managers honoured the outstanding employees and handed over appreciation certificates and gifts to them, thanking them for their good efforts and commitment to work.
 
 













