addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Martyrs' Families' Affairs Office at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court announced that a number of mosques across the UAE have been named after the nation's martyrs. The initiative coincides with a nationwide campaign launched under the hashtag #the_UAE_Remembers to commemorate their sacrifices.
The move is part of a joint initiative, launched by Awqaf, Dubai's Department of Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities and the Sharjah Islamic Affairs, the aim being to show pride in the sacrifices of the martyrs.
The initiative embodies the office's keen interest in cooperating with all government and private entities and individuals in order to commemorate the sacrifices of the noble martyrs of the UAE and highlight Emiratis' appreciation of and pride in what they have sacrificed to defend the nation and protect its stability.
Commenting on the occasion, Sheikh Khalifa Bin Tahnoon Bin Mohammed Al Nahyan, Director of the Martyrs' Families' Affairs Office, said, "This joint initiative, launched by the Awqaf, Dubai's Department of Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities and the Sharjah Islamic Affairs, as well as other similar initiatives, are aimed at showing pride in the sacrifices and heroism of the martyrs who defended the country and protected its glory."
"Such initiatives also reflect unity and cohesion amongst all segments of the Emirati society in commemorating the sacrifices of the noble martyrs in order to mark the great meaning of martyrdom and instil the values of loyalty and sacrifice in the way of the nation," Sheikh Tahnoon added, noting that the mosques were selected because of their proximity to the homes of the martyrs' families so as to honour them and recognise the sacrifices of their sons.
"By naming the mosques after the nation's martyrs we honour their sacrifices. Congregations at these mosques will pray for the martyrs who answered the call of duty and defended the legitimate rights. The mosques will witness on the noble values embodied by the martyrs, including loyalty, altruism and sacrifice," Sheikh Tahnoon added.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, praised the initiative of naming the mosques after the nation's martyrs, describing it as a kind gesture. It is a tribute to mark the martyrs' heroism and sacrifices and allow the members of the society to pray for them whenever they enter the mosque or read the name plaque, he added, noting that the initiative exemplifies solidarity and loyalty to our heroes.
Dr al Kaabi further pointed out that Awqaf has embarked on naming a number of mosques across the country in memory of the brave martyrs who sacrificed their pure blood to answer the call of duty, hailing on the occasion the cooperation and coordination amongst the various entities in order to promote the principles of sacrifice, loyalty and affiliation to the homeland and its precious soil.  
The Martyrs' Families' Affairs Office launched the #The_UAE_Remembers campaign with a view to engage all people in the UAE, including citizens and expatriates, to show their pride in the sacrifices made by the martyrs to preserve their country's stability and glory.
 













