addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, Bestower of bounties and blessings. He endowed unlimited favours upon His Servants. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He enjoined us to hold steadfastly to the rope of Allah, maintain solidarity amongst us and show love and mercy to one another. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his orders: "and indeed this, your religion, is one religion, and I am your Lord, so fear Me." (Al-Muminun: 52).
O Believers,
With glamour and joy overwhelming in the air across the country, we are commemorating, these days, the 45th UAE National Day and rejoicing such a historical achievement that will be remembered by the generations to come and that has become a role model for others to emulate. Thanks to the Union, the UAE is shining with abundant blessings and welfare.
Throughout history, scholars and people of wisdom agreed to that unity is a source of good living and happiness as well as excellence and pioneering. There is no doubt that without unity nations cannot flourish, nor can civilisations emerge or survive. Hardly can any nation rise its standing or enjoy welfare unless its people come together and join their efforts in the best interest of society.
It is with concerted efforts, complemented intellectual powers and united hearts that civilisations are built. Truly, unity is a source of strength and blessings, which is why Allah, the Almighty says, "and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage and [then] your strength would depart." (Al-Anfal: 46).
 
This sacred Aya illustrates a universal norm, being that unity is the path towards strength and excellence. Yet, discord will only bring about failure and lack of development. This is a clear evidence on the importance and great benefits of unification.
O Servants of Allah
No doubt that the union is a social blessing, yet it is a human requirement. This is because man was created in such a way that he tends to be social by nature; he naturally enjoys mingling with others and be in harmony with them. Similarly, a society can progress and achieve its higher interests only with the united efforts of all its members and their coordination and harmony.
In his book, Al Muqaddimah (Prolegomena or Introduction), Ibn Khaldoun says, "Human Social Organisation is something necessary. The philosophers expressed this fact by saying, 'Man is 'social by nature.' That is, he cannot do without the social organisation." For this reason, Islam called for unity and holding firmly to the rope of Allah altogether. It made unification a goal and objective for all those of wisdom. Thus, Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "and hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided." (Al Imran: 103).
Our Master Muhammad pbuh called for adhering to the community and urged for harmony and unity of hearts. He said, "A faithful believer to a faithful believer is like the bricks of a wall, enforcing each other." While (saying that) the Prophet pbuh clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers. He pbuh also said, "Whoever wants the luxury (i.e. the best place) in Paradise, then let him stick to the community."
The Prophet pbuh called for unification in many aspects of the life because it is the basis for every progress and welfare. For example, he said, "If you gather together at your food and mention Allah's name over it, you will be blessed in it." This means that sufficiency and content comes as a result of the blessing of being together. So, the bigger the number of people in the gathering, the greater the blessing.
Amongst the other merits of the union is that it promotes compassion. In a unified community each member will support others members and protect their interests. Thus, they share their care and mutually shoulder their social responsibility. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "A believer is the mirror of his brother believer. A believer is the brother of another believer. He protects him against loss and defends him behind his back." That is, a believer protects the interests of his brother believers and treat them with kindness and respect.
With agreement and harmony comes the strength, fortification and prosperity. With unity lives will be protected, honour preserved and properties safeguarded. In a cohesive community, people will cooperate in building their nation and share each other's joy as well as distress. The Prophet pbuh said, "A believer in his connection to other believers is like the head in its connection with the rest of the body. He feels pain of the other believers just as the body feels distress over what is troubling the head." 
O Worshipers, 
In light of these civilised Quranic principles and Prophetic guidance, the solid edifice of Union was established in the UAE on the hands of great leaders and wise founders who are commemorated for the grand achievements and gracious favours they offered to their homeland and community. They spared no efforts in the way of establishing the Union, setting an example for dedication and determination that helped them in surmounting all difficulties. With their loyalty and devotion, they became shining stars that guide their people and a school from which generations can draw lessons in loving their nation and being committed to achieve its glory. 
Paying tribute to their astounding achievements, HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, said, "The Union was a dream which became true. It was an aspiration that turned into a reality, one that is based on a concrete ground. It came as a result of firm belief in its necessity and a clear vision about its current goals and future objectives."
Indeed, the founders of the Union are "men true to what they promised Allah."  (Al-Ahzab: 23). The history will remember them to "reward them [according to] the best of what they did and increase them from His bounty. And Allah gives provision to whom He wills without account." (An-Noor: 38).
Those unrivalled leaders created a magnificent union based on science and knowledge, with pillars of tolerance and good manners. In this process, building human resources, upgrading their potentials in all fields and providing them with the best services have been the focus of the wise leadership.
As a result, the UAE has become a beacon in its accomplishments, a role model in its advancement and pioneering and an example in its citizens' loyalty to their national identity and affiliation to their beloved homeland.
We are also proud, on this occasion, of our noble martyrs who are shining stars in the sky of glory and dignity. They have exemplified the greatest meanings of patriotism and sacrifice in the way of protecting this generous land. In return, they are promised with the greatest rewards by the Lord of Earth and Heavens. The Almighty says, "and the martyrs, with their Lord. For them is their reward and their light." (Al-Hadid: 19). That is to say, they will attain a noble reward and a great light that will spread through their hands.  
With this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the Almighty, to continue blessing us with unity, harmony, welfare and peace. O Allah, please bless us in what You have provided to us and increase us from Your plentiful bounties.  
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
 
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the first thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Almighty, and hold firm to our union and adhere to its principles. Indeed, unity is a blessing that we should show gratitude for and a trust that we should fulfil.
By looking around us will make us recognise the merits of our union further. Indeed, the Union has yielded abundant benefits and brought decent livelihood to the people in the UAE. As such, the UAE has become a role model in progress and building. It turned out to an oasis of stability and happiness that attracts people from all around the world. Ultimately, the UAE and its people attained a lofty standing amongst the countries of the world.  
The union, therefore, is such a gracious bounty that brings happiness to those who are blessed with it. Yet, those who are deprived from it will long for cherishing its merits, while those who were burned with the evil of dispersion and discord will weep tears for lacking unification.
This sheds light on the fact that division amongst the community leads to all types of hardship and sufferings, while unity is a great blessing. For this reason, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "unity is mercy, and division is torment." Truly, this is a Prophetic statement that is rich with meanings. It emphasises the virtues of the Jamaah (the community) for it brings mercy, peace and prosperity and protects against corruption. On the other hand, it highlights that dispersion and disputes induce failure and instability.
Indeed, unity and harmony are amongst the greatest bounties that Allah bestows upon His servants. The Most Exalted says, "and brought together their hearts. If you had spent all that is in the earth, you could not have brought their hearts together; but Allah brought them together." (Al-Anfal: 63).
 
Let us therefore thank Allah for such blessing by preserving it, instilling its love deep in our children's hearts and teaching them to maintain it.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, bless for us our union and protect our leadership and community. O Allah, we beseech You to help us be grateful to You for the bounties You bestowed upon us.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).  
 













