addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In implementation of its Cabinet-approved strategic plan, Awqaf held its periodic workshop for directors of its departments and branches. The meeting, which is held alternately in various emirates, took place this time at the Umm Al Quwain Cultural Centre. The workshop was chaired by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Director General in presence of all its executives and branch directors across the emirates.  
They reviewed all decisions, projects and suggestions. This is in line with the methodology adopted by Awqaf since its incorporation: working with team spirit and creating trained leading cadres who are capable of taking wise decisions.
Dr al Kaabi inaugurated the workshop by extending sincere greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and all of the UAE national and resident community. Dr al Kaabi prayed to Allah, the Glorified and Exalted is He, to bring Ramadan with further security and piety, and to continue blessing the UAE and the whole world with safety and prosperity.
Dr al Kaabi then discussed the various topics on the agenda. This included putting the Programme of Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President into effect and best use it at all levels in mosques, community institutions and universities.
Dr al Kaabi praised this annual generosity of hosting the scholars as well as the interest and daily follow up on the programme of scholars by HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs. He also commended on the follow up and coordination by HE Ahmed Al Humairi, Secretary General of the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, highlighting their efforts to host these scholars and appreciating their role in supporting Awqaf to achieve its mission, especially during Ramadan.
The guest scholars are set to deliver lectures in mosques and around 34 community institutions across the emirates that requested lectures to be given by several of these scholars to their employees. Awqaf is set to hold four qualitative symposiums on topics that include: Endowments, Imams and Muezzins, Preachers & Muftis, and Quran Memorisation tutors.
This year's programme further includes six cultural evenings, four of them about the importance and positive impact of national service in the community, and two evenings for women, entitled: "Social Communication, a Blessing or a Curse?"
These evenings will be held in each emirate and will be well prepared. The public will be invited to attend these evenings.  Stakeholders from the relevant entities, who will be determined by the director of each branch, will also participate in events.
The workshop then addressed the recommendations of the Federal National Council concerning Islamic affairs. Dr al Kaabi called on all departments to adhere to these recommendations and cooperate with the relevant entities to implement them.
Concerning the Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Government Excellence Awards, the workshop explained the Award's categories, the criteria of performance and achievement, initiative and creativity, cooperation and commitment to work, participation and responsibility, continuous learning as well as supervisory skills. It also discussed the preparedness for the Award. The various categories of the Award were reviewed, the directors of the departments and branches were asked to abide by the RADAR approach for corporate work with a view to elevate performance and achievement levels.
On another note, it was highlighted that departments should be prepared for the external audits that will be conducted for the quality management system, environment management system and occupational health and safety system.
Other topics that Dr al Kaabi discussed with the branch directors included: the needs of each emirate for new mosques; the provision of suitable lands for mosques' construction to keep pace with the accelerated urban development in new cities and neighbourhoods; coordination with public social and charitable entities regarding the annual needs for mosques. Outfitting mosques with female prayer rooms was also discussed. In this regard, the need to ensure female prayer rooms were established in accordance with the Islamic teachings was highlighted, considering, as well, the previously laid down safety procedures so that such rooms would not be close to male-designated places in mosques.
Dr al Kaabi called upon all branch directors to increase their inspection field visits to mosques and Quran memorisation centres in the emirate and closely oversee their requirements, performance and organisation of work.
 













