addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf held a closing ceremony for Quran memorization centres at the National Theatre in Abu Dhabi marking the end of their 3rd semester. During the ceremony, Awqaf honoured Quran memorisation tutors, Quran buds (youngsters), and excelling administrators and teachers.
The honouring was done in the presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General, Mohammed Obaid Al Mazrouei, Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, as well as a large number of parents. At the end of the ceremony, certificates and prizes were presented to the excelling members and the Quran memorisers.
Hanaa Al Kamali, Manager of Al Madina Quran Memorisation Centre delivered a speech on behalf of Awqaf in which she praised the UAE wise leadership for attributing extra care to such centres. She also praised the centres and their young students as well as their parents, who enjoyed the benefits of these centres established by the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan. His approach and blessed steps, she added, were followed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Al Kamali further commended on the UAE leadership's support to the Quran memorisation Centres saying, "Thanks to their support, the Quranic centres prospered and spread across all the emirates. The material and moral support from our Sheikhs and Rulers is cherished by each Emirati and resident on our beloved land. May Allah reward our Rulers and Sheikhs for their efforts and benevolence."
 "In line such blessed approach, Awqaf is keenly interested in giving utmost care to Quran memorisation centres by continuously supporting them in improving their performance and promoting their noble mission. This is done through appointing competent male and female Quran tutors, providing convenient means of transportation including drivers and male and female supervisors and introducing modern technology to aid in Quran memorisation, understanding and Tajweed. Such care stems out of Awqaf love for learning and teaching the Book of Allah. To this effect, it develops curriculums that are suitable for all ages and levels in order to strengthen the love of Allah, the nation, and the rulers in our children's hearts," she added.
Al Kamali also explained that during the past period, Awqaf saw strong competition amongst the memorisation centres. Mohamed Hamel Al Ghaith Centre in Bani Yas, and Abu Dhabi Institute for Memorising Holy Quran won the first ranks at the country level.
During the ceremony, which was brilliantly presented by the preacher Sarah al Hosani, the Quran buds performed remarkable shows. Their ages ranged from 3.5 to 5 years. They joined the centres as a preparatory step to joining the official schools in the UAE.
The ceremony was preceded by meaningful and appealing shows that warmed the hearts of the audience, who attended to celebrate the excellence and magnificent achievements of their children.
The ceremony concluded with a documentary film about Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, and his tours to the Quran memorisation centres. Then, the audience prayed Allah to grant his blessings to the UAE wise leaders for their support to and care of such centres.
 













