addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In preparation for the blessed month of Ramadan and in the context of the events organised by Awqaf to enrich the mosques' mission and develop values and virtues in the community, Awqaf issued the second volume of the Mosque Lessons book (Doroos Al Masajid). The book is well-used at all mosques across the UAE and was given by Awqaf as a gift to ministries and entities inside and outside the country in order to reflect moderation and the culture of tolerance and openness, which was brought by Islam, the religion of mercy, cooperation, civilised and refined values.
Since mosques are the beacons of guidance, culture and science for the community, they were honoured by Allah, The All Mighty, by being attributed to Him, saying, "and [He revealed] that the masjids are for Allah, so do not invoke with Allah anyone." Therefore, mosques became a place where people gather to establish their prayers and a school for disseminating values and virtues that are unbiased to any party or group rather than calling for deviated thoughts in contradiction with the spirit of Islam and the methodology of moderation that embraces all people.
Introducing the new volume, Awqaf highlighted the UAE leadership care for mosque affairs, including their construction and maintenance, so that the mosques would remain a beacon for science, discipline, and education as well as an oasis of tranquillity and peace of mind.
As part of its mission, Awqaf strives to highlight the civilised image of mosques and their role in the community. And in line with its vision to promote social awareness and progress in light of the tolerant teachings of Islam that recognise the current realities and understand the future challenges Awqaf prepared the new volume of mosque lessons, after the success of the first edition. Its academic cadres developed the topics and themes so that the second issue included methodological scientific lessons that mosque goers would share with their families and neighbours.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi affirmed that Awqaf ensured making these lessons short and rich in beneficial knowledge for the best interest of the public. As such, he added, in no more than eight minutes, Imams would be able to deliver a lesson that conveys a straightforward and clear culture as well pleasant preaching based on Quranic verses, the true Hadith (prophetic tradition) and prominent scholars' opinions.
"Topics will cover various worldly life matters including faith, worships, Islamic morals, global cultures and religious and national occasions. Such lessons will be delivered away from prolongation, exaggeration, and extremism. They would rather guide to goodness and the right path, keeping pace with the current developments and being open to the modern trends in knowledge, Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













