addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The first batch of the dignified scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, arrived at Abu Dhabi airport on Thursday, June 26, 2014 to revive the nights of Ramadan in the UAE. The 17 scholars, coming from Egypt, Morocco, India, and Malaysia, were received by Dr Hamdan bin Musallam al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, and several officials of Awqaf.
Dr al Mazrouei welcomed the dignified scholars as the honourable guests of the UAE. He conveyed to them the greetings of the UAE leadership and people. He further appreciated their great role in promoting awareness, love, and moderation amongst Muslims and highlighting the tolerant teachings and immortal mission of Islam, wishing them a pleasant stay among their people in the UAE.
Al Mazrouei asserted that this generous annual hosting by HH the President of a number of prominent scholars from the Arab and Islamic worlds emphasised his keen interest in enriching this Holy month with mutual studies, Quran recitation and investing time in a way to benefit all members of the community.
He highlighted the important role played by the scholars in disseminating and instilling the righteous values and principles of Islam in the souls and minds of Muslims so as to keep up with Ramadan's spiritual breeze and establish superior meanings based on compassion and tolerance.
"This generous initiative receives great interest from our wise leadership and unremitting follow-up by HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs. The programme of the guest scholars is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs organised by Awqaf," al Mazrouei pointed out.
Al Mazrouei emphasised that HH the President was following the approach of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan, may Allah rest him in peace, in encouraging benevolence and spreading knowledge in the community by hosting elite scholars and intellectuals from the Arab countries during the holy month of Ramadan. The aim is to disseminate knowledge and the tolerant teachings of Islam, he added.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Director General of Awqaf, stressed that the scholars play great role in instilling righteousness and enlightenment in the hearts and minds of people and guiding the communities towards stability and prosperity.
"The UAE community is cherishing tranquillity and welfare. This was all made possible because the UAE's leadership aimed at promoting faith, love, peace, development, cooperation and harmony. It strengthened the role of science and scientists in the community -aspiring for the scientists to perfectly play their role in establishing the tolerant principles and values of Islam in the minds of community members. At the same time, violence and extremism were abandoned; for, as it is well-known, whenever violence and extremism befalls a country, these will definitely destroy it," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Meanwhile, the dignified scholars praised the great stances and wise leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, which were appreciated and respected by many people throughout the world. They wished the UAE government continued success and prosperity, and expressed their appreciation for the hospitality and generosity that clearly reflected the interest of HH Sheikh Khalifa in science and scientists. They also thanked him for hosting them and giving them the opportunity to be callers for goodness, virtue and sober Islamic thoughts.
Furthermore, the scholars highlighted, with all respect, love and appreciation, the great accomplishments of late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace, praying to Allah to protect his good sons as well as the UAE leadership, government and people from evil deeds.
The guest scholars unanimously agreed that Islam is a religion of moderation and that Al Azhar confronted extremists and others deviated thoughts. They underlined as well the importance of fruitful and constructive cooperation between Al Azhar and its scholars, and the people of the UAE. They mentioned that Egyptians cherished the role played by the UAE leadership and people in supporting their Arab and Muslim brothers and disseminating moderate religious discourse.
Dr Mohammed Abdul-Samad Mohammed Muhanna, Professor and Supervisor of Academic Studies at Al-Azhar University, extended his thanks and appreciation to the UAE government and people for their warm reception and generous hospitality, which translated the nobility and love of the UAE people for Egypt. He affirmed that the Egyptian people reciprocated the same feelings of appreciation and love towards them.
Prior to the scholars' arrival, Awqaf announced the Scholars programme in the blessed month of Ramadan by hosting 35 scholars from 14 countries, who would deliver more than 800 religious lectures in various mosques and entities in the UAE.
On another note, Dr Jadur-Rab Amin Abdul Majid, Dean of the Faculty of Islamic and Arabic Studies Boys at Al-Azhar University, said, "The reception we witnessed practically embodied the spirit of our true religion in appreciating science and scientists. Such generous hospitality is a tradition of the UAE people." He added: "We came to convey and simplify Sharia science for the people away from immoderation or extremism. Islam is a religion of moderation. Allah, the Most Exalted, honoured us by making us a moderate nation as He says, thus, We have made you a just (and the best) nation."
Dr. Mohammed Abu Zeid Al Amir, Dean of the Faculty of Islamic Studies at Al-Azhar University and a member of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, appreciated the UAE's initiative in hosting the scholars to revive the nights of Ramadan through delivering religious lectures.
Dr Hani Sayed Imam, Professor of Fiqh at Al-Azhar University, confirmed that the graciousness and hospitality shown by the UAE reflected the deep relation between Egypt Al Azhar and the UAE, as well as the strong bonds of love and harmony between the two peoples. He further highlighted the great standing of Al Azhar in the hearts of all Muslims, especially in the UAE. Al Azhar adopted a moderate approach and the UAE adopted the same approach, as ordered by Islam, he added, indicating that Al Azhar succeeded in combating the extremist ideologies.
Dr Ahmed Al Sharkawi, a Professor at the Faculty of Sharia and Law at Al Azhar University, expressed the scholars' gratitude to such honourable hosting by the UAE, stressing that the relationship between Al Azhar and the UAE is not new, but rather began a long time ago. He concluded that inviting the scholars to explain religious matters to the UAE people and Muslim residents was one of the praiseworthy aspects of the longstanding relation between the two countries, and that those who encouraged scholarly interaction and the spread of knowledge would be rewarded by Allah.
 













