addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The guest scholars of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, visited the headoffice of Awqaf to learn about its services and programmes. The visit is also aimed at benefitting from Awqaf's experiences and practices in matters like promoting religious awareness, mosque affairs, selection of Imams and preachers, Fatwa affairs, Waqf development and investments as well as its smart and electronic services, which were efficiently employed in offering religious services.
Dr Hamdan bin Musallam al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf, welcomed the guests and expressed the UAE leadership's keen interest in hosting such visits. He also expressed the delight of the UAE people and residents with the guests' arrival.
Dr al Mazrouei also hailed the directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, concerning this annual hospitality. Such directives follow the great tradition of the founding leader Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan, may Allah rest him in peace, he added.
Al Mazrouei explained to the guests the mechanism of work at the Quran memorisation centres, which have become model schools thanks to the great attention given to them by the UAE wise leadership as well as and the continuous support by HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.  He also explained the process of organising Hajj and Umrah affairs and developing endowment investments in accordance with the latest feasible economic methods and in line with the teachings of Islam.
Dr al Mazrouei further clarified that Awqaf encouraged team work and was always interested in developing its performance and keeping pace with the latest technology. As such, it utilised the best capabilities and modern smart systems with a view to facilitate the public's access to its services in line with the UAE wise leadership's aspirations.
 













