addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, gave a number of lectures in mosques across the UAE about acts of obedience and best ways to prepare for and receive the blessed month of Ramadan.
The scholars emphasised the need of taking advantage of the divine gifts of this month by performing acts of obedience and getting close to Allah. Ramadan is the month in which good deeds would be multiplied, and in it falls a night that is better than a thousand months. It is an opportunity to abandon harmful deeds and further engage in acts of worship such as establishing prayers in mosques, reciting Quran and attended religious lectures.
In their lectures, the scholars praised this occasion, in which a galaxy of scholars was hosted by HH the President to enrich this holy month with lectures and lessons in mosques and other institutions, as well as Ramadan gatherings so as to allow the public to meet these prominent scholars.
The scholars also hailed the great attention paid by the UAE wise leadership to religious affairs, maintenance and upgrade of mosques and development of endowments so that these would play a leading role in the community. The UAE leadership continuously sought to make its people happy and provide them with all decent living requirements till they became one of the happiest peoples in the world, they underlined.
The scholars added that the generosity and kindness of the UAE were not limited to its people. Rather, the UAE extended its kind hands to embrace the needy and distressed worldwide without discrimination in terms of race, gender or religion. As a result, the UAE has become one of the most significant nations in the field of the humanitarian support worldwide. Its abundant generosity continues to overflow, relieving those in need at all times.
The scholars called on the UAE people and residents to pray to Allah, the Almighty, in this blessed month to continue blessing HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates, and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. They also called on them to implore to Allah to continue blessing the UAE with safety and prosperity.
The scholars further asked the people to pray for late Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who initiated such good approach, one that was followed by the UAE leadership.
The scholars concluded by thanking HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, and Awqaf for the generous hospitality and good organisation of the lectures and events.
 













