addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE mosques were crowded with thousands of fasting Muslims who benefited from the lectures of the Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him. 
The honourable scholars emphasised that Ramadan was a precious gift of Allah to His servants and one of His bounties on them. Allah decreed Ramadan for Muslims so that they would attain His mercy. They explained how the Prophet pbuh received Ramadan, and talked about his traditions during Ramadan, highlighting that he pbuh even delivered a sermon on the last day of Shaaban to underline the virtues, standing, greatness and blessings of the holy month.
At the beginning, Dr Muhammad Abdul Samad, the Advisor of Al Azhar Grand Imam, called upon Muslims to grasp the virtues of this holy month, which was decreed especially for the Nation of Muhammed. He called upon them to receive the month just like the Prophet pbuh did. , He specifically referred to the Prophet's speech to people on the last day of Shaaban when he said, "O people, you are about to enter the shadows of a great blessed month in which falls a night that is better a thousand months. ."   Allah, the Almighty, made fasting during this month a duty and encouraged people to perform extra prayers at night. In this month, seeking nearness to Allah, the Almighty, through a good deed would be considered like performing an obligatory act of worship. In turn performing an obligatory act of worship during this month would be rewarded seventy fold of its reward during any other month.   It is the month of patience, which is rewarded with Paradise. It is the month of comforting others and the month during which believers will cherish multiple rewards. Whoever provides a fasting person with food to break his fast will have his sins forgiven and will be protected from the Hellfire. He will earn the same reward as the fasting person without diminishing the reward of the latter." (Hadith)
Dr Samad continued saying, "The shadow of Ramadan means the spirit of Ramadan with all its blessings, divine gifts, and secrets. Allah, the Glorified and Exalted is He, grants the people in their worldly life divine gifts, and they should take advantage of them. Such divine gifts vary in their blessings, light, and secrets. Ramadan is not like any other month. Laylat al-Qadr (the Night of Power) is not like any other nighty. The places vary in their blessings. There is a blessing for a time, place and people. In our days, we miss these meanings. They have been transformed into purely materialistic concepts."
The scholars highlighted, as well, how one can draw closer to Allah during Ramadan by fasting, reciting Quran, performing obligatory prayers and night prayers and engaging in righteous and charitable acts.
For his part, Dr Saeed Al Kamli, Professor of Islamic Studies and Higher Education, Kingdom of Morocco, stressed that the most important thing when receiving Ramadan is to rightfully appreciate it and know what it means, which would be the beginning of attaining reward. Muslims must realise that Ramadan is a favour from the Allah, the Most Merciful, and that He specifically blessed the Nation of Muhammed, with this sacred month.
Dr Al Kamli emphasised that every Muslim should seize the opportunity during this holy month to further engage in acts of goodness. They also must know the rules of fasting, regularly join the religious lectures and avoid anything that may affects fasting, he added.
He said that the UAE assigned scholars to introduce to the Muslims anything they need to know and to spread the righteous religious knowledge in the community. The whole month of Ramadan is a great time for engaging in acts of worship in the day and night. He shed light on the gracious rewards one will, by Allah's favour, attain in return for their good deeds in Ramadan, which are superior to those attained during other months.
Meanwhile, Dr Mohammed Suleiman Mohammed Hanafi, professor at the Faculty of Koran at Al-Azhar University, emphasised that the holy month has a great standing amongst other months and nights, and that Allah preferred it over the rest of the months.
 













