addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, visited Sheikh Zayed Mosque, may Allah rest his soul in peace, in Abu Dhabi. They paid tribute to his soul by reciting Surat Al-Fatiha, praying to Allah, the Almighty, to dwell him in His Paradise in recompense for his religious, humanitarian and civilised achievements.
During their visit, the scholars praised the achievements of Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest him in peace, inside and outside the UAE. They also hailed his wisdom, mercy and humanitarian acts which extended to various countries around the world without discrimination, stressing that he set for the generations a model example of a wisdom and kindness.
They emphasised that such approach was adopted by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai, Their Highnesses Member of the Supreme Council Members Rulers of the Emirates and HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
The scholars prayed to Allah to continue blessing the UAE wise leadership and people with stability and prosperity. They were hosted by HE Dr Hamdan bin Musallam al Mazrouei, Chairman of Awqaf; Dr Mohammed Mater al Kaabi, Director General, and a number of officials from the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre and Awqaf.
The scholars toured Sheikh Zayed Mosque and admired the Islamic architecture featuring the Mosque. They learned that the founding leader ordered the construction of this mosque, chose its location, and followed up the project till it was completed. Then, he died, leaving this great work to immortalize, for generations, the significance of the Prophet's hadith: "When a man dies, his deeds come to an end except for three things: Sadaqah Jariyah (continuing charity); a knowledge which is beneficial and a virtuous descendant who prays for him." This is achieved by the virtuous descendants who completed the construction and ornamentation of the mosque and adopted the same approach along with his brothers Their Highness Rulers, HH Crown Prince, and the remaining generations of Al Nahyan.
It worth mentioning that this is the first time such elite scholars visit the UAE and watch this comprehensive cultural renaissance.
The scholars had Iftar meal after Al Maghreb prayer in Sheikh Zayed Mosque and went to several mosques to commemorate the nights of this holy month by giving lessons and lectures, in accordance with the prepared program. They delivered lectures about receiving Ramadan and the significance of fasting. These lectures were attended by thousands of worshippers.
 













