addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Today we are celebrating the 45th anniversary of the establishment of our impervious country, the United Arab Emirates, which impressed the whole world with its renaissance, prosperity, happiness of its people and firmness of its approach that is based on the principles of authenticity, modernity and excellence. Our authenticity is derived from our religion and the heritage of our ancestors, while modernity  is embodied in our ability to innovate, develop and keep abreast of the modern age and the developments on the knowledge, economy and smart technology arenas, said Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, marking the 45th UAE National Day.
In his speech on the occasion, Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "This is why we should promote the spirit of citizenship and highlight our nationality as well as loyalty to our astute leadership. We should pay back to our beloved homeland by sincerely realising Awqaf's mission and implementing its approach of moderation, tolerance and peaceful co-existence."
He stressed, in this regard, Awqaf's keen interest in continuing the march of development, innovating the possible best educational and practical methods, proposing initiatives that supports such development and innovation, implanting the principles of moderation, tolerance and love of the nation deeply in the hearts of generations as well as promoting the values of loyalty and affiliation, both through the Friday speeches and lessons at mosques. He also pointed out that Awqaf has made wide strides in order to offer distinguished and modern services to the public.
"Excellence is the ambitious goal of our leaders who aspire to achieve the "number 1" on the scale of civilizational development. 45 years passed since our founding leaders, may Allah rest their souls in peace, hoisted the flag of the Union high. Thereafter, the UAE flag was raised high on each national, Arab and international mast," Dr al Kaabi added.
"The 2nd of December 1971 is a historical day that will be ever-alive in our memory. On this day, our wise leaders unite with their people who are loyal to their principles and proud of their achievements. Our ambitious march of success is continuing and, with it, the values of loyalty and affiliation to the nation and the national identity are being more and more deeply rooted. Four decades passed with the UAE's stances are still celebrated at the regional and international forums, thanks to the finest humanitarian examples it sets in giving, tolerance, peaceful co-existence and international cooperation aimed at achieving security for countries and communities around the world," Dr al Kaabi further underlined.
"The UAE has remarkably succeeded in surmounting all the challenges pertinent to development, knowledge-making, investing in the digital technology and building the generations of innovation and excellence as well as the leaders of the modern corporate performance. As a result, the UAE established a modern role model of an advanced country that is realising, today, the highest world-class ranks in terms of performance and pioneering in all fields," added Dr al Kaabi.
He continued saying, "The UAE now adopts a wise religious discourse and an approach based on the principles of moderation, tolerance, forbearance and respect of all cultures and religions. Those are the very principles that are promoted by Islam and our astute leaders who combat all kinds of extremisms and sectarianism. Such an approach is the correct and safe path for societies and governments to develop. We pray, on this occasion, to Allah the Almighty to have mercy on our founding leaders and bless our current leaders with success in achieving all the pioneering and well-being goals they aspire for their people. Let us also beseech Allah to protect the UAE and grant victory to our Armed Forces, the protectors of the nation and preservers of justice, nobility and peace."
Dr al Kaabi further pointed out that since the establishment of the UAE, its founding fathers embraced tolerance as the most prominent principle of the noble human civilisation that we are all seeking to build, one that is consistent with the teachings of our religion.
Concerning the efforts aimed at instilling the principles of forbearance, exploring its horizons and promoting it throughout the public entities and institutions, Dr al Kaabi said: "As part of its strategy, Awqaf adopts tolerance as a way of thinking, a vision and a mission throughout all its pulpits and in its religious discourse that is open to life. It also promotes tolerance in all the conferences it holds and all the humanitarian and social studies it produces and publishes."
 "Awqaf strives to enroot such principles deep in the minds of Emiratis. It also promotes the culture of respect towards the cultural and religious diversity of all the people who enter the country, whether for work, tourism or business. Such tolerance is also embraced towards all economic, educational and humanitarian institutions existing the UAE, those being supporting elements that are conducive to enrich the country's growth. They are our partners in developing such diverse social fabric that the UAE astute leadership nurtures and our religion provides with an ideal environment to flourish based on the values of constructive co-existence between cultures. Indeed, cultural exchange is key to building civilisations. Moreover, life will not develop or prosper except through making best use of all the human repository of innovation and ambitions," Dr al Kaabi added.
"The UAE prides itself for setting an example for other countries to emulate in religious tolerance and civilised co-existence between all constituents of its society. This was testified by several celebrities and forums on the global arena. Furthermore, its tolerant and moderate approach ranked at the top of happiness indicators in terms of intellectual practice and daily life dealings with people," Dr al Kaabi further explained.
More to the point, Dr al Kaabi clarified that Awqaf believes that Muslim scholars and Imams needed more than anyone else to adopt the culture of tolerance and lead the march of forbearance. This is because one of the key potentials of a religious scholar is to make the religion of Allah close to all people's heart and mosques oases of faith that attracts all members of the community, he added, noting that the essence of Islam is mercy, the latter being the basis of tolerance and cooperation in righteousness and piety, which is an approach being adopted by Awqaf's Imams and preachers.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi addressed the religious discourse and highlighted the pressing need for freeing it from the clutches of the extremist groups who hijacked the religion. As a result, their deviated thoughts translated into the most heinous crimes, terrifying the safe people, shedding blood, disgracing sanctities, spreading corruption and committing the most devilish sins, he pointed out.
"The correct way towards combatting such extremist ideology goes through promoting the moderate principles of Islam, supporting and qualifying religious leaderships that have influence on the Muslim minorities around the world. This should be done in accordance to plans, programmes, initiatives and methodologies that are overseen by such established religious institutions in the Islamic world as Dar al Iftaa in Egypt," Dr al Kaabi further underlined. 
Initiative
Highlighting UAE's experience in developing and qualifying mosque Imams, Dr al Kaabi said that Awqaf has implemented an initiative aimed at qualifying the leaders of religious discourse based on the principles of moderation in a number of countries. The initiative included conducting a field study in each involved country in order to define the appropriate methodology for qualifying their religious leaders and articulating a scientific approach to train them. Such approach took into consideration the nature and the cultural and religious identity of each country.
Based on that, he added, standards and controls were specified for accepting the trainees, suitable locations for conducting the training suggested and equipped with all that is necessary for the purpose, trainees were nominated in accordance to the laid down standards, controls and procedures. The initiative also included organising scientific and time schedule for the training and following up its execution.
As for the topics of the training conducted for the Imams in Muslim minorities' communities, Dr al Kaabi explained that it included such contemporary and sensitive topics as: protecting the youth from extremist and terrorist ideologies, ways of controlling Fatwa issuance and enhancing its reference, citizenship rights, duties of Muslim minorities towards the host countries, positive involvement in promoting stability in the countries where Muslims live, disseminating the culture of dialogue and acceptance of others' opinions as well as benefiting from diversity in development.
He then highlighted Awqaf's achievements, including the launch of video conferencing service that allowed its departments' managers and branches' directors across the UAE to conduct a visual teleconnection each from their locations.
Amongst other achievements Dr al Kaabi brought into light was Awqaf's support to the job Emiratisation process in the UAE through staffing its Quran memorisation centres across the country with more than 400 male and female Emiratis, underlining the remarkable growth of those centres which accommodated more than 39000 students from both genders. 
12 smart services and development of Fatwa Centre
Dr al Kaabi also talked about Awqaf's adoption of smart technology, highlighting in this sense, the features of its new App on smartphones and tablets. The new app is available in Arabic and English and features 12 main services in addition to other sub-services, Dr al Kaabi pointed out. These include mosque services, which offers prayer times across the Emirates, location of nearest mosque and Qibla direction using GPS technology, amongst others. Other services include Friday speeches, religious Fatwas, Hajj and Umrah, publications and books, Quran memorisation centres, Wqaf and Media centre, in addition to such services as Dhikr, applying for mosque construction and Programme of Scholar-Guests of HH the UAE President, he explained.
On another level, Dr al Kaabi said, "In implementation of the initiative of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, announcing 2016 as UAE Year of Reading, Awqaf implemented a number of sub-initiatives that engage all of its staff. Such initiatives are aimed at promoting the cognitive knowledge of its staff, identifying innovation talents and developing performance in a way to ensure increasing productivity and efficiency of the employees and Awqaf too. To this effect, Awqaf distributed the "A Book in Minutes" series of books to all its executive directors, department managers and branch directors, he added.
Regarding the Fatwa services offered by Awqaf, Dr al Kaabi underlined that Awqaf moved to the new headquarters of the Official Fatwa Centre, noting that it has been provided with elite scholars who are specialised in Fatwa issuance. He underscored that the Fatwa Centre succeeded during Ramadan to answer around 80589 questions, an estimated increase of 7000 Fatwas compared to last year. The Fatwas answered questions about jurisprudence of worship, business transactions and women-specific matters, Dr al Kaabi explained, stressing that this reflects the credibility of the Fatwas issued by Awqaf.
Developing Waqf fund raising
Elaborating on Awqaf's achievements, Dr al Kaabi further highlighted its efforts in the field of developing Waqf fund raising. To this effect, he said, Awqaf and Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) aimed at allowing Awqaf to use the bank's electronic channels to collect its Waqf donations, adding that the MoU serves in streamlining donation channels through ATMs, mobile banking applications and online banking.
Dr al Kaabi stressed, in this sense, that in line with its Cabinet-approved strategic plan, Awqaf is keenly interested in upgrading and updating its information technology infrastructure as well as its smart platforms in accordance with the world's best practices and latest technology. The aim is to deliver the best services to customers in an easy manner anywhere and at any time, he added, praising in this regard the great support to Awqaf by the UAE wise leadership. Thanks to such support, Awqaf succeeded in elevating its services and attaining the public's satisfaction, Dr al Kaabi concluded. 
 













