addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Over hours of a patriotic joy and delight, Awqaf celebrated yesterday the UAE's 45th National Day in a grand open-air ceremony at the Khalifa Stadium in Al Ain.
Present at the ceremony were Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, Awqaf's executive directors, directors of government entities and dignitaries in Al Ain as well as a host of around 10 thousand people from all walks of life. Participants also included all Awqaf's male and female employees, Imams and Khateebs in Al Ain city and surrounding areas, who were wrapping scarves in the UAE flag colours around their necks with the Union symbol ornamenting their chests.
Opening the ceremony, participants sang the national anthem with the music played by the Abu Dhabi Police Music Band. This was followed by scenes of the UAE beautiful heritage, including horses, camels and Ayala dance troupe singing spirited national chants that expressed love to the homeland and loyalty to its wise leadership. Such songs included "Yerhamallah Sheikhna Zayed", "Salami Ala Ad-Dawla wa Ala man sakan feeha" and "Al Emarat Izz Ed-Dar, Ya Rabbi Tihmeeha". These were accompanied by traditional dances by kids, youths and even officials, symbolising the UAE heritage and the patriotic glory.
Such atmosphere brought to this year's celebration the fragrance of the beautiful past that extended to the present era, one that is characterised by welfare and prosperity under the umbrella of the UAE wise leadership. 
Commenting on the occasion, Dr al Kaabi, said, "These days, all of the UAE people, citizens and residents, are cherishing delight and sincere loyalty and affiliation to the the UAE; the nation of tolerance, stability and well-being. May Allah have mercy on the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, and his founding brethren."
"We also pray to the Almighty to grant success to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. May Allah help them in their endeavours to build our modern beloved UAE, the country of authenticity, well-being and happiness for all its inhabitants," Dr al Kaabi concluded. 
 













