addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, Who did confer great favour "upon the believers when He sent among them a Messenger from themselves, reciting to them His verses and purifying them and teaching them the Book and wisdom." (Al Imran: 164). I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his orders: "and whatever the Messenger has given you - take; and what he has forbidden you - refrain from. And fear Allah." (Al-Hashr: 7).
O Believers,
Allah, the Most High, has bestowed a great favour upon mankind by sending them our Master Muhammad pbuh, enlightening their path and guiding them towards salvation and peace. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "there has come to you from Allah a light and a clear Book. By which Allah guides those who pursue His pleasure to the ways of peace and brings them out from darkness into the light," (Al-Maaida: 15-16). As such, our Master Muhammad was a mercy from Allah, the Almighty, for He says, "there has certainly come to you a Messenger from among yourselves. Grievous to him is what you suffer; [he is] concerned over you and to the believers is kind and merciful." (At-Tawba: 128).
Carrying Allah's message, the Prophet pbuh promoted mercy amongst people, relieved them from their burdens and made their things easier for them. The Prophet pbuh says, "Indeed, I am a gifted mercy."
Truly, the Prophet pbuh set the best role model in showing mercy towards others. This was embodied in his tenderness and leniency. He rebelled evil by means of what is best, maintained relationship with those who severed relations with him, gave to those who deprived him and forgave those who treated him unjustly. Moreover, he pbuh only spoke that from which good reward was attained. Thus he advised people, saying, "A sign of man's good observance of Islam (his piety) is to keep away from that which does not concern him."
That is to say, part of a Muslim's piety and perfect faith is to keep away from what does not concern him and abandon words and deeds that are inappropriate. Rather, one should engage himself in matters that contribute to his betterment in this world and benefit him in the next.
Truly, the Prophet embraced such noble merits and good manners throughout his life stages. He was brought up on good ethics and possessed a praiseworthy character, aspiring well-being for all people, something which he pbuh reflected by saying, "None of you will have faith till he wishes for his (Muslim) brother what he likes for himself." This means, a Muslim's piety entails wishing for others that which they like for themselves and avoiding harming people.
O Worshipers, 
Allah, the Exalted is He, revealed to His Messenger pbuh a message that is universal in its discourse and humanitarian in its goals. It is a message that is aimed at enrooting the values of mercy and peace deep in people hearts and promoting love and harmony amongst them as our Master Muhammad expressed it: "Shall I tell you of something which, if you do it, you will love one another? Spread (the greeting of) peace amongst yourselves."
Indeed, the Prophet pbuh demonstrated peace and mercy in words and in deeds. To this end, he was the best of people in fulfilling his covenant, the most compassionate and the broadest in knowledge and patience. He gave people good tidings and did not make them run away from Islam. He facilitated things to people concerning religious matters, and did not make it hard for them.
Another sign of his leniency, whenever Allah's Messenger pbuh was given the choice of one of two matters he would choose the easier of the two as long as it was not sinful to do so, but if it was sinful, he would not approach it.
Our Master Muhammad pbuh really came as a mercy and goodness for humanity and a beacon of light for mankind. He safeguarded people's rights and preserved their honour, guiding them to that which is beneficial and leading them to the righteous way. He pbuh said, "Both legal and illegal things are evident but in between them there are doubtful (suspicious) things and most of the people have no knowledge about them. So whoever saves himself from these suspicious things saves his religion and his honour. And whoever indulges in these suspicious things indulges in fact in unlawful things."
So, the Prophet pbuh made clear what is Halal (lawful) and that which is Haram (unlawful), urging for abandoning doubtful matters so as to save religion.
Thus, in his advocacies, the Prophet pbuh explained the good ethics a Muslim should embrace, which included keeping away from what does not concern them, wishing for others what they like for themselves, being sincere in work for Allah, the Almighty, and ensuring to be lawful in seeking their provisions and all their worldly life matters.
O Believers in the Prophet pbuh,       
Love and respect for the Messenger of Allah pbuh has a great status in Islam. On the authority of Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, that a man came to the Prophet pbuh and said, "O Allah's Messenger pbuh! When will The Hour be established?" The Prophet pbuh said, "What have you prepared for it?" The man said, "I have not prepared anything for it, except that I love Allah and His Apostle." The Prophet pbuh said, "You will be with those whom you love.'"
Love for the Prophet Muhammad is a measure of one's faith. One of the signs of the Muslim's piety and sincerity to Allah, the Most Exalted, is to love His Messenger pbuh for, indeed, those who love him will taste the sweetness of faith. The Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever possesses the following three qualities will taste the sweetness of faith," and he mentioned: "The one to whom Allah and His Apostle become dearer than anything else."
One of the ways that one can show their love to the Prophet pbuh is by invoking peace and blessings on him. By so doing, one will observe the Messenger's right and appreciate his favour upon us. Indeed, Allah, the Most Exalted and Sublime, and all those in the Heavens confer blessings upon our Master Muhammad. In the first part of the following Aya, the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]." (Al-Ahzab: 56). Then He orders the believers on earth to do the same: "O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace."
Another way of showing our love to the Prophet pbuh is to follow his guidance in the way we treat our family at home. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "The best of you is the one who is best to his wife, and I am the best of you to my wives."
Our love to the Prophet pbuh can also be expressed by taking his example and embracing his good ethics in all our endeavours, businesses and dealings with others. He pbuh said, "May Allah show mercy to a man who adopts a kind attitude when he sells, buys and asks for the repayment of loans."
Furthermore, we should be guided by the Prophet pbuh in what we say, what we do and in all our worldly life affairs, in line with the Almighty's orders: "there has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often." (Al-Ahzab: 21).  
With this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the Almighty, to grant us success in following the guidance of the Messenger of Allah pbuh and provide us with his intercession.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most High, and read about the life of the Prophet pbuh and educate ourselves about his merits and great character. Indeed, the Prophet tradition is full of lessons, which should encourage us to ponder and set for us the role model in life. Such lessons guide people to the righteous path, make clear for them the goals of his great message and instil in them its noble values and the tolerant principles of Islam.
Thus, it is our duty to read about the Prophet's traditions, contemplate on them and urge our children to do so. We can also encourage them by sitting with them to read it and drive lessons from its wisdom. Muslims are also urged to take the example of the Prophet pbuh in all their life matters as well as to invoke Allah's blessing upon him.
That is said, we beseech Allah to invoke peace and blessings on our Master Muhammad pbuh who said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, we seek Your grace to guide us to the best of manners and the finest of speech and deeds. O Lord of the Worlds, please also make us amongst those who follow the guidance of the Prophet pbuh and adhere to his Sunna.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













