addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Sheikha Fatima Bint Zayed Bin Saqr, Head of the Umm Al Moumineen Women's Association and wife of HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ajman, visited Hajir Quran memorisation centre in Al Talla, Ajman. During the visit, Sheikha Fatima was briefed on the most prominent achievements by Awqaf pertinent to the Quran memorisation centres and lessons at mosques.
Sheikha Fatima delivered a speech on the occasion in which she hailed the care and support given to Quran memorisation centres and lessons at mosque by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah Protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince by Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ajman.
She also expressed her delight and appreciation of the interest shown by Emiratis to construct Waqf Quran memorisation centres.
After that, Sheikha Fatima listened to recitations from the Quran by the female students of the centre and talked to them. She encouraged the students to be persistent on Quran recitation and memorisation, expressing her wishes of continuous success to the centre's management, tutors and students in their righteous endeavours and in learning the Quran sciences.
For her part, Muna al Ghassani, the director of Quran Memorisation Centres Department at Awqaf, valued the support and care given by HH the Ruler of Ajman to the houses of Allah and the Quran memorisation centres, as well as the continuous care and follow-up by his wife to teaching the Book of Allah and interest in instilling its values and instructions in the hearts of the younger generations, citing the role played by the holy Quran in bringing up generations that memorise it, know its sciences and adhere to its good manners.
Al Ghassani further underlined that, in framework of Awqaf's endeavour to encourage Emirati students to join Quran memorisation centres and learn Tajweed, it established the "Model memorisation centres", highlighting in this regard the initiative of Yusuf Sultan al Ajmani to construct Hajir Centre, which was built on a 22000 square-foot plot that was donated by HH the Ruler of Ajman.
She also pointed out that the Hajir Quran memorisation centre was destined to serve the residents of Al Talla and its surrounding areas. It consists of 10 classrooms that can accommodate up to 250 female students and a multi-purpose theatre of 120 seats, in addition to offices for support services, al Ghassani added, noting that the centre is manned with highly qualified tutors and is provided with the best teaching curriculums. Transportation is also provided for all students using air-conditioned buses.
Meanwhile, Afraa al Kutbi, the director of Hajir centre, expressed her thanks and appreciation to Sheikha Fatima Bint Zayed Al Nahyan for honouring the centre with her visit and for her support to charity and social work. She commended, as well, on the efforts of the founder of the centre, Yusuf Sultan al Ajmani.
Concluding her visit, Sheikha Fatima honoured a number of the centre's Quran female memorisers as well as the distinguished administrative employees working at it.
 













