addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the birth anniversary of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh, Awqaf held a big religious and intellectual ceremony at the Abu Dhabi National Archives theatre in presence of the Grand Imam of Al Azhar, His Eminence Dr Ahmed al Tayeb, and Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman. A number of Al Azhar guest scholars, Christian clergy based in the UAE and a host of scholars, Imams and Khateebs, alongside a large gathering of the public were also present at the celebration.
The ceremony opened with the national anthem followed by a recitation of verses from the holy Quran by a female student from one of the Quran memorisation centres. This was followed by a speech by Dr al Kaabi in which he extended sincere greetings to the UAE wise leadership. He also hailed the presence of His Eminence Prof Dr Ahmed al Tayeb as well as the high level of coordination and cooperation between Al Azhar and Awqaf.
Dr al Kaabi strongly condemned, on the occasion, the terrorist blast that ripped through a Coptic church in Cairo yesterday.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi said, "All praise is due to Allah Who honoured the humanity with the birth of the Master of mankind, the possessor of great character and the guide to the straight path and clear light, our Master and Prophet Muhammad. May Allah confer His blessings upon him, his family and all of his companions. May Allah also invoke peace and blessings upon his father Ibrahim, his brothers Musa and Isa and all of the Prophets and Messengers."
On this occasion, Dr al Kaabi, congratulated HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates, Their Highnesses the Crown Princes, the UAE people and all of the world. 
Dr al Kaabi then addressed the audience saying, "Dear audience, in a moment of contemplation and a flash of thought, there sparks an innovative idea that is conducive to lead us out of the conventional way in addressing the religious discourse, taking us into the deep seas of knowledge to discover the precious gems of various discourses. While seeking such knowledge, we strongly believe that addressing the renewed religious matters should always be bonded to the roots of authenticity tree despite that its branches may grow and extend towards spiritual objectives and modernity."
He continued saying, "Celebrating the birth anniversary of the Messenger of Allah, Muhammad Ibn Abdullah al Hashimi al Qurashi pbuh, is in fact a celebration of the birth of values and principles that are conducive to bring happiness to mankind and fulfil their aspirations in disseminating virtues, preserving rights and spreading peace, the aim being to build a human civilisation. Allah, the Almighty, granted us the skill to build civilisations based on our tendency to populate this earth. We, as humans, have never sought to destroy our earth, neither by means of war with all its ravages nor through extremism, terrorism and Fitnah."
Dr al Kaabi strongly condemned, on the occasion, the "awful, dreadful crime and act of terrorism committed against the Coptic church in Cairo yesterday."
"Such a crime is an evidence for every heedful human being that terrorism is the enemy of humanity and all of the religions alike. Similar hideous crimes were previously committed against Muslim mosques. Yet, no matter how much crimes and sins those terrorists commit, they will, by Allah's grace, be defeated because our religion is clear in its call for mercy and tolerance, for Allah, the Most High, says, 'there has come to you from Allah a light and a clear Book. By which Allah guides those who pursue His pleasure to the ways of peace and brings them out from darkness into the light, by His permission, and guides them to a straight path,'" Dr al Kaabi underlined.
"In these two Ayas, one can envision the futuristic indicators of the message sent down with the birth of our noble Prophet pbuh. These illustrate the core objectives of such message, embodied in bringing about the light of reasoning, knowledge, guidance, satisfaction, happiness and peace. Through these two Ayas we can see a prosperous future for humanity, bringing such values to communities after they have been suffering because of the lack of a moral system. Indeed, by moving away from the bright tracks of peace and the straight path of Islam, societies are doomed to continue suffering," Dr al Kaabi further pointed out.
Dr al Kaabi then stressed that commemorating the birth anniversary of the Prophet pbuh is a celebration of the birth of a new era, one in which there prevailed good manners and all the noble principles that the Prophets and the people of wisdom called for. This is why the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Indeed, I was sent to perfect good manners." He also said, "I was sent with a simple religion," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi further brought an evidence from the Hadith on the ease of Islam, quoting the Prophet pbuh as he said, "The most beloved religion to Allah is the simple Hanifiya," highlighting the lofty character of the Prophet pbuh about whom Allah, the Most Exalted says, "and indeed, you are of a great moral character."
Dr al Kaabi explained that Muslim scholars summarised the essence of such Hanifi religion in four Hadiths that constituted the guidance for values and virtues, noting that the great Hadith scientist, Abu Dawood, have collected about 500,000 Hadiths, of which he chose 4 Hadiths that he thought were the most illuminating of them all. The first one is: "The (reward of) deeds depends upon the intentions." Such intention, Dr al Kaabi clarified, is the driving power for human deeds and the basis of sincerity to Allah, the Knowing of what is concealed.
The second Hadith, Dr al Kaabi said, is: "Part of a man's good observance of Islam is that he leaves alone that which does not concern him." This Hadith, he explained, contains utmost wisdom for mankind, showing them the deeds that they have the right to do, the words that they can say, and those deeds or words which they should not engage in.
Concerning the third Hadith: "None of you will have faith till he wishes for his (Muslim) brother what he likes for himself," Dr al Kaabi described it as a great one that called for justice, equality and altruism. Meanwhile, regarding the fourth Hadith: "The lawful is clear, and the unlawful is clear," Dr al Kaabi said it encourages self-respect so that one should not commit a mistake that may harm religion, people or traditions.
"Dear scholars and people of wisdom, this is the guidance of your Prophet pbuh whose birth anniversary we are celebrating today. Those four Hadiths are the core of the science of moralities in Islam. Thus, you are urged to spread peace amongst yourselves and around the world in line with the guidance of the Prophet pbuh. Indeed it is such a beautiful conduct to greet all people, whether you know them or not. What is more beautiful is to promote the culture of peace, peace-making and harmony amongst your family members, at your work, in the community and all over the world," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
On another level, Dr al Kaabi concluded his speech by extending his thanks and appreciation for the Grand Imam of Al Azhar for his presence in the celebration. He also hailed the Grand Imam's attitudes towards disseminating Al Azhar's great message and praised the good cultural and scientific cooperation between Al Azhar and Awqaf as well as other cultural and educational institutions in the UAE. 
For his part, Dr Khalid Ahmed Abdul Aal, Prof at the Faculty of Theology, Al Azhar University, delivered a speech in which he said that the birth of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh is the birth of civilisation, noting that the Arab nation is in dire need to a new civilizational structure that may help them restore their glory and leadership.
"More than any other time, the humanity now needs to follow the Sunna and guidance of the Prophet pbuh. With his birth, a system of good ethics and virtues emerged. Truly, any civilisation that does not have a moral system is of no value and is more like a fruitless tree," he added, extending his thanks to the UAE leadership and people for their continuous support to Egypt's leadership and people.
The ceremony then brought to stage preacher Shamma al Dhaheri, graduate of Mohammed V University in Abu Dhabi. She delivered a speech entitled: "The humanitarian qualities of the Prophet of Mercy." In her speech, al Dhaheri talked about such humanitarian and tolerant aspects in the Prophet's message as maintaining bonds of kinship, compassion, tolerance and respect to all religions, cultures and races. These principles brought immense benefits to humanity, she added.
This was followed by a performance by a group of youngsters from Quran memorisation centres who sang the traditional Islamic song "Talaal Badru Alayna", which emitted breezes of spiritual delight in the ceremony.
During the ceremony, the audience also enjoyed a discussion on the publications of the library of Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque, which addressed a topic themed "Together reading about the traditions of the Prophet pbuh". It also highlighted the interest showed by the UAE leadership in promoting reading, honing talents and boosting good manners.
This was followed by insights on Surat Ad-Dhuha by preacher Omar al Derei, Director of Fatwa Department at Awqaf. Al Derei, brought into light aspects of honouring the Prophet pbuh and explained a number of moral principles that Allah, the Almighty, blessed this orphan with, later becoming the Master of the Messengers.
The ceremony concluded with a poem titled "Ya Ajmala Ath-Thiqlain" for the poet Abdullah al Hadiya al Shehhi, in which he exceptionally stood out in reading, wording and expressing his feelings. The poem praised the great noble qualities of the Prophet pbuh. 
 













