addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He raises the status of those who are humble and rewards them abundantly. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the Imam of those who were humble. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his orders: "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al-Hashr: 18).
Dear Muslims,
The character of humbleness is one of the greatest merits that one can embrace and the most decent way of dealing with others. It means to show leniency, accept the truth and pay due respect to others. It is so honourable and praiseworthy quality that Allah, the Most Exalted ordered His Prophet pbuh to embrace it. The Almighty says, "and lower your wing to the believers." (Al-Hujar: 88). That is to say, show humbleness to them by being lenient with them, speaking to them gently, seeking their satisfaction, and treating them kindly.
In like manner, the Prophet pbuh urged the believers to adorn themselves with the character of humility as he said, "Allah, the Most High has revealed to me that you (people) should be humble, so that no one boasts to the other or transgresses another."
Please know that humbleness is one of the virtuous traits that are conducive to elevate the believer and lead them to engage in the best acts of obedience and worship. It was narrated that Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "People are paying no attention to the best act of worship: humility."
Humility is one of the first merits that Allah, the Most Exalted, praised in the believers, saying, "and the servants of the Most Merciful are those who walk upon the earth easily, and when the ignorant address them [harshly], they say [words of] peace." (Al-Furqan: 63). In this Aya, "walk upon the earth easily" means to preserve tranquillity and quiet demeanour and be patient and humble. Indeed, these are amongst the qualities of the Prophets.
O Servants of Allah, 
There are many ways of carrying oneself in humility in our worldly life. For instance, being humble towards Allah, the Most Sublime, can be displayed by adhering to His orders and avoiding all that He prohibited. Moreover, in prayer, Muslims prostrate themselves to the ground, acknowledging human beings' lowliness and humility before the greatness of their Creator. Similarly, humility towards the Prophet pbuh can be attained by taking his example and following his guidance.
Moreover, one other great type of humbleness is the one we practice while dealing with our parents. Treating one's parents with humility is a divine order that Allah, the Almighty, revealed in His holy Book. The Most Exalted says, "and lower to them the wing of humility out of mercy and say, 'My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small.'" (Al-Israa: 24). This means, to treat one's parents with leniency and modesty so as not to abandon something that they loved.
On another level, one of the most important degrees of humility that has a great positive impact on the community is to show humbleness and respect while treating others, regardless of their origin, culture, nationality or profession. This is because people should be judged based on their good conducts and achievements. Indeed, the believers are ranked by Allah, the Most High, according to the degree of their piety. The Almighty says, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted." (Al-Hujurat: 13).
Thus, members of the society should practice self-effacement, each in their position. For example, an employee should treat his customers gently and process their transactions with pleasure and kindness. For their part, managers should treat their subordinates with respect, appreciate their efforts and promote their performance. Team members, for their part, should also be modest towards each other, thus spread an atmosphere of friendliness in the workplace. As a result they will enjoy an environment that is conducive to release their innovation and help them achieve development.
School is another place where the character of humbleness should stand out. As such, teachers should treat their students with modesty and strive to provide them with beneficial knowledge.
Stressing the importance of modesty, a poet said, "Be humble even if your standing is high. Indeed, humility towards highness is the way."
O Servants of Allah,
 Please know that humility brings about honourable fruits and great benefits to those who practice it. The most gracious reward of all is that humble people will, by Allah's grace, attain Paradise as their eternal dwelling. Therein, they will be provided by palaces and rivers. The Most Exalted says, "that home of the Hereafter We assign to those who do not desire exaltedness upon the earth or corruption. And the [best] outcome is for the righteous." (Al-Qasas: 83). The best outcome, here, means Paradise which Allah, the Almighty, prepared for the pious. The highest rank, therein, will be attributed to the most humble amongst them.
Truly, Humbleness is amongst the noblest virtues of a believer and it leads them to the highest ranks of piety. In this regard, Muaz Ibn Jabal, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "No servant of Allah will attain the highest rank of piety unless he becomes humble."
Furthermore, humility is the means for attaining Allah's pleasure. The Almighty raises the rank of the humble believers and elevate their status as illustrated by our Master Muhammad pbuh: "No one humbles himself for the sake of Allah but Allah raises him."
Truly, Allah, the Almighty, rewards those who display humbleness towards others by raising their ranks in degrees, imparting tranquillity to their souls, placing their love in the hearts of others and making them honoured by other people. In fact, the one who is self-confident is the one who is truly humble. Humility reflects great manners and contributes to strengthening one's interaction with his fellow members of the society. This is because, socialising requires a decent behaviour and a polite character.
With humility people come closer to each other and the community becomes further harmonious, with its members showing affection and respect to one another.
With this in mind, we beseech Allah to make us amongst those who display humbleness towards others, adhere to Your orders and follow the guidance of Your Prophet pbuh.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most High, and be humble towards His Creation. Indeed, humility is one of the best traits that the true believers strive to attain.
In this sense, one of the means of attaining humbleness is by contemplating on the greatness of Allah, the Most Exalted, and ponder over the origin of His Creation. The Almighty says in this regard, "it is He who created you from dust, then from a sperm-drop, then from a clinging clot; then He brings you out as a child." (Ghafir: 67).
Another way of reaching higher degree of humbleness is by remembering the great reward that Allah, the Most Giving, has promised those who display humility towards others. Truly, modesty is such a beautiful quality that leads to the highest ranks in this life and the next. The humble believers are the ones who will, by Allah's favour, attain the higher standing and the best rewards.
You are, therefore, urged to embrace such a noble trait and try to be humble in all your daily life dealings with others.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh in line with Allah's orders: "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek your grace to guide us to the best of manners and make us amongst those who are humble, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we pray to You to grant Your forgiveness and reward to who built this mosque and to his or her parents as well as to anyone who gave to this mosque.
O Allah, we also supplicate to You to forgive whoever built a mosque where Your name is remembered or donated a Waqf that goes for the best interest of Your servants or the benefit of their offspring.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













