addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Ever-Living, the Sustainer of [all] existence. Neither drowsiness overtakes Him nor sleep. He encompassed all things in knowledge and He has enumerated all things in number. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Exalted, in line with his orders: "and thus We have sent it down as an Arabic Quran and have diversified therein the warnings that perhaps they will avoid [sin] or it would cause them remembrance." (Taha: 113).
O Worshipers,
Allah, the Almighty, enjoined upon Muslims to recite the holy Quran. He, the Most Exalted, revealed it to His noble Messenger pbuh and ordered him to recite it beautifully. The Almighty says, "and recite the Quran with measured recitation." The holy Quran shall, by Allah's favour, help its readers on the Last Day, serving them as an intercessor. Our Prophet pbuh said, "read the Quran, for it will come as an intercessor for its reciters on the Day of Resurrection." Moreover, the reciter of the Quran get blessings and multiplied rewards. So, whoever recites a letter from Allah's Book, then he receives the reward from it, and the reward of ten the like of it.
There are certain Suras in the holy Quran that our guide Muhammad pbuh gave a special attention, and thus, he urged us to recite them more and further reflect upon their meanings. One such Sura is Al Baqara, about which the Prophet pbuh said, "Recite Surat Al-Baqara, for to take recourse to it is a blessing and to give it up is a cause of grief, and the Batala (magicians) cannot confront it."
Reciting Surat Al Baqara and reflecting on its great Ayas and their noble meanings, one cannot but pay special attention to the most excellent Aya in Allah's Book, which is Ayat Al Kursi (the Throne Verse). It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah once asked Ubai Ibn Kaab, may Allah be pleased with him, "O Abul Mundhir! Do you know which Aya in Allah's Book is the greatest?" Ubai said, "Allah and His Apostle know best." The Prophet pbuh again said, "O Abul Mundhir! In your opinion, which Aya in Allah's Book is the greatest?" He said, "Allah - there is no deity except Him, the Ever-Living, the Sustainer of [all] existence." Thereupon he pbuh patted Ubai in the chest and said, "Rejoice by this knowledge, O Abul Mundhir!" that is to say, may the knowledge be pleasant for you.
On its own merits, Ayat Al Kursi is seen as the most excellent Aya in the holy Quran because it contains the greatest meanings as well as a number of the beautiful names of Allah, the Most High. It begins with "Allah", the name which imparts tranquillity to souls and brings assurance to the hearts. Allah, the Almighty says, "unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah hearts are assured." (Ar-Raad: 28).
Indeed, whoever takes refuge with Allah, the Most Compassionate will protect him, whoever asks for His help, He will relieve him, and whoever asks Him for provisions He will provide him. Allah says, "is He [not best] who responds to the desperate one when he calls upon Him." (An-Naml: 62).
The following names of Allah, the Almighty, in the Aya are "the Ever-Living, the Sustainer of [all] existence." Indeed, supplications to Allah by these two Names are more likely to be answered. In this regard, it was narrated that a man supplicated to his Lord saying, "O Allah, indeed I ask You since all praise is due to You, there is none worthy of worship but You, the Bestower, the Creator of the heavens and earth, O Possessor of majesty and honour, O the Ever-living, the Sustainer of (all) existence, I ask of You.)' The Prophet pbuh said, "Do you know what he has supplicated with?" They said, "Allah and His Messenger know best." He said, "By the One in Whose Hand is my soul, he called upon Allah by His greatest Name, which, if He is called by it, He responds, and if He is asked by it, He gives."
The "Sustainer of all existence" means He arranges the affairs of His Creation, provides them with sustenance and keeps them safe and sound. In His hand is their life, death, and their resurrection. He guides them in their travel on land and in the sea, for He, the Most Exalted, "Who is a maintainer of every soul, [knowing] what it has earned." (Ar-Raad: 33).
Ayat Al Kursi mentions many great attributes of Allah, the Most Exalted. One great attribute is that "Neither drowsiness overtakes Him nor sleep". This means that Allah, the Most Glorious, is perfect in every way and free of all defects and weaknesses such as sleep and drowsiness. This is because sleep overtakes the mind and senses, and being the Sustainer of all existence, Allah, the Almighty, unlike human beings, does not sleep. He says, "there is nothing like unto Him, and He is the Hearing, the Seeing." (As-Shura: 11).
In the same regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "Allah does not sleep, and it is not befitting that He should sleep. He lowers the Scales and raises them (i.e. the scale of people's deeds).The deed done during the day is taken up to Him before the deed done during the night, and the deed done during the night before the deed done during the day. His Veil is Light, and if He were to remove it, the glory of his Countenance would burn everything of His creation, as far as His gaze reaches."
Ayat Al Kursi, then, talks about the greatness of Allah and the vastness of His Dominion, for "to Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth." All His Creation submit to Him humbly, seeking His help and mercy. Allah says, "there is no one in the heavens and earth but that he comes to the Most Merciful as a servant." (Maryam: 93).
Next in the Ayat Al Kursi, is a reminder that on the Day of Judgement, no one can plead on behalf of someone else unless Allah Himself has given him permission to do so: "who is it that can intercede with Him except by His permission?" Our Master Muhammad pbuh is amongst those who are given permission by Allah to intercede for his followers. He pbuh said, "On the Day of Resurrection the people will surge with each other like waves....Then I will ask for my Lord's permission, and it will be given, and then He will inspire me to praise Him with such praises as I do not know now. So I will praise Him with those praises and will fall down, prostrate before Him. Then it will be said, 'O Muhammad, raise your head and speak, for you will be listened to; and ask, for your will be granted (your request); and intercede, for your intercession will be accepted.' I will say, 'O Lord, my followers! My followers!"
Amongst the other great attributes of Allah in the Ayat Al Kursi is that "He knows what is [presently] before them and what will be after them." In this, there is an indication about Allah's absolute knowledge, encompassing all past, present and future happenings. Nothing whatsoever can be unknown to Him for He "knows that which deceives the eyes and what the breasts conceal." (Ghafir: 19). And the Almighty "knows what is on the land and in the sea. Not a leaf falls but that He knows it. And no grain is there within the darkness of the earth and no moist or dry [thing] but that it is [written] in a clear record." (Al-Anaam: 59).
Indeed Allah is ever, over all things an Observer, for He says, "not absent from Him is an atom's weight within the heavens or within the earth or [what is] smaller than that or greater, except that it is in a clear register." (Sabaa: 3).
Knowing that, he is really successful who observes his Lord in his words and deeds. And congratulations to those who are sincere to Allah in all that they do.
Another attribute of Allah, the Almighty, that Ayat Al Kursi mentions is His great Will. The Aya says "and they encompass not a thing of His knowledge except for what He wills."  That is to say, none of His Creation can ever have access to any part of His knowledge unless He has given them permission to do so.
The other attribute of Allah that is highlighted in Ayat al Kursi is Allah's Ultimate Dominion and Divine Power. In spite of the supremacy of Allah's dominion and the limitlessness of His Throne, He is ever protecting the heavens and the earth and all that is between them. The Almighty says, "and He restrains the sky from falling upon the earth, unless by His permission." He keeps them safe and in balance and "their preservation tires Him not."
So, exalted is the Name of Allah Who is the only Lord worthy of worship.
With this in mind, we pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to make us amongst those who recite His Book and ponder over its meanings.
O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon,
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Sublime, and read Ayat Al Kursi and contemplate on its meanings. Indeed, reciting this Aya strengthens one's obedience to His Lord and fills the heart of its reader with faith and assurance.
In light of its importance, some Prophetic Hadiths urged for reciting Ayat Al Kursi at eight different times per day. In fact, those who are steadfast on reciting it after each obligatory prayer will be greatly rewarded by Allah and, by His grace, will be amongst the dwellers of Paradise. The Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever recites Ayat Al Kursi immediately after each prescribed prayer, there will be nothing standing between him and his entering Paradise except death."
 
On another level, amongst the virtues of Ayat Al Kursi is that Allah, the Almighty, made in it a sufficient cure and a protection from the Satan for those who read it in the morning and in the evening. So, whoever reads Ayat Al Kursi before going to sleep, will remain, by Allah's favour, under His protection from the devil until the morning.
Therefore, it is such a beautiful thing that we teach our children the merits of Ayat Al Kursi and urge them to be diligent in reciting it. By so doing, they will be mindful of Allah, the Most Exalted, all the time for He "knows [every] secret within the heavens and the earth." (Al-Furqan: 6). Ultimately, they will please their Lord, perfect their work and excel in the their life. Truly, Ayat Al Kursi is a cause for protecting the family, for its members will, by Allah's grace, cherish a stable life, protected from the temptations of the Satan.
Thus, you are invited to recite this Aya in the morning and evening as well as after each prayer. You are also urged to teach your children to be steadfast on reading it.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh who said, "for everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, we seek your grace to protect us in between our hands and from behind us and make us amongst those who are mindful to You as if they were seeing You. O Allah, please help us to be obedient to Your ordains and bless us with the company of Your Prophet pbuh on the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your grace to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. 
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
----------------------------------
Official Notification from Awqaf
To be delivered after Friday prayer 23/12/2016
O Servants of Allah,
Please know that the main events of the GCC Unified Inmates' Week will take place at Corniche Al Qawasim in Ras Al Khaimah from 25 to 30 December 2016. 
 The event is aimed at boosting solidarity, harmony and compassion in the society as well as promoting the culture of traininig, rehabilitating and integrating inmates within the community. This will help them to become active and productive citizens for the best interests of themselves, their families and homeland.
That is said, we beseech Allah to confer His blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
 
 













