addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed that unifying and regulating Fatwa practices in the UAE, preventing personal or improvised Fatwas and rebutting extremist and terrorist Fatwas are amongst the objectives of Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre. It is also aimed at establishing direct contact between people from all walks of life and Islamic law scholars, he added, noting that the centre also represents a realistic view about the community, for it contributes to learning more about the society's needs, and helping people resolve their problems in compliance with Islamic Shariaa.
Dr al Kaabi further explained that some of the Friday sermons were prepared based on the feedback from the Fatwa Centre. "When receiving many queries about the same subject, the centre refers it to the Friday Khutba Department in order to address the prevailing issue," he added.
Dr al Kaabi unveiled that, since its inception, the centre answered more than 2.8 million queries, which are kept in its archive. Thanks to the centre's sound systematic approach, such Fatwas can be accessed in one click, he pointed out, adding that, of the total number of queries, as many as 2.4 million were answered on the phone, 282000 via SMS service, and over 64000 queries were answered on Awqaf's website.
"One of Awqaf's strategic objectives is to enhance the religious Fatwa reference in the UAE. To achieve such goal, the Official Fatwa Centre was established, facilitating communication channels between the centre and the public. Being manned with trusted Muftis and scholars who are known for their moderate and tolerant approach as well as high academic qualifications, the centre succeeded in winning the public's trust and became a reliable point of reference for all their religious queries. This is because religious Fatwas are meant to offer a jurisprudential point of view, clarifying all its relevant terminologies, principles and objective. Such a task can only be done by scholar who are versed in Islamic Fiqh," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
The Official Fatwa Centre's Muftis answer the public's queries regarding all their daily life matters. Those could be relative to worship and creed, business transactions, family relations, and women issues, in addition to general queries. The service is available in Arabic, English and Urdu. Furthermore, the centre follows the group Fatwa mechanism and seeks to instil such approach, the aim being to combat the one-sided opinions. To achieve this, the centre offers Fatwa consultation service, in addition to the possibility of referring a query to another Mufti. A Mufti can also avoid answering a query about which they do not have sufficient knowledge and mark it for the centre's supervisor to call the Fatwa seeker and answer his/her query.
 













