addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf organised a specialised workshop for its Official Fatwa Centre's Muftis on the art of addressing queries related to family matters. 
In a statement on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said the training comes as part of a series of intensified specialised workshops planned by Awqaf as part of its strategic development and training plan for the year 2016.
"Such programmes are aimed at further elevating the level of services Awqaf offers to the public, including those provided by its Official Fatwa Centre. The initiative is also in line with Awqaf's keen interest in meeting the community's needs in a manner that is conducive to instil a knowledge-based development, promote the public's religious awareness and offer them guidance in this regard," added Dr al Kaabi, noting that the workshop carries special importance as it is related to family affairs and is aimed at enhancing family status in the community.
Meanwhile, the participants showed much interest in the activities and discussions of the workshop. Discussions addressed the various common family issues, diagnosing and analysing them to, finally, find appropriate case-to-case solutions that are based on the latest theories and studies in the field of social science and consistent with the Islamic teachings as well as sound observations of the real family dynamics in the community. By so doing, Muftis will always be abreast of the latest developments on the psychological and societal sciences arenas, and thus, have the competency of issuing Fatwas that accommodate for all the alternative lines of knowledge.
In line with the keen interest in achieving the objectives of the training and in consideration of priorities, the activities were focused on studying and analysing such main factors that are key to gain insights about the causes behind family problems and devise strategies to solve them. This includes, for instance, the scientific methods used by family consultants to identify the reasons behind complications that married couples may experience, and then determine the proper means of improving the relationship between them. It also addresses the way to study the mental and psychological factors that affect each of the couples so as to enable the Mufti to offer wise and appropriate recommendations that best suite each case in hand.   
 













