addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, received at Awqaf's head offices in Abu Dhabi, HE Nurlan Yermekbayev, the Minister of Religious Affairs and Civil Society of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Present at the meeting was also Khairat Lama Sharif, Kazakhstan's Ambassador to the UAE.
Dr al Kaabi welcomed the Kazakh minister and expressed his thanks to him for the visit that, he said, is conducive to strengthen the cooperation relationship between both countries in the religious affairs. He then briefed the visiting minister on Awqaf's programmes, vision, achievements and the role it played in instilling the principle of moderation, moderate religious discourse, constructing model Quran memorisation centres and unifying the Fatwa reference in the country. Awqaf plays a role, as well, in promoting the values of tolerance and peaceful co-existence in the community as an established approach in the UAE, he added.
Dr al Kaabi further underscored the great support to Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. Thanks to their support Awqaf succeeded in developing the services it offers to the public and attaining several awards at local, regional and international arenas, Dr al Kaabi explained.
Discussions during the meeting addressed ways of bolstering the cooperation relationship between the two sides in the religious field and concerting efforts aimed at highlighting the bright image of Islam, a religion that promotes ethical and humanitarian values and calls for tolerance, co-existence, and peace, and combats violence, extremism and terrorism. This can be achieved through continuous communication and exchange of expertise. The two sides discussed in this regard a draft memorandum of understanding that will be signed at a later stage.
For his part, HE the Kazakh minister praised the remarkable support to Kazakhstan by the UAE and lauded the UAE's experience in establishing an approach of moderation and forbearance as well as promoting the values of tolerance and peaceful co-existence. He further expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Awqaf for its constructive role in serving Islam, Muslims and the entire humanity.    
 













