addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that the launch of the UAE Food Bank by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, adds to HH's humanitarian and charitable initiatives that are well celebrated by Emiratis and other people around the world. Such initiatives are conducive to impart hope to the hearts of the poor and alleviate the sufferings of those who are sick and less fortunate, he added.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed that amongst the good deeds that are best rewarded by Allah, the Almighty, and urged by Islam is offering food and advising one another to do so. This is in line with the teachings of the holy Quran and the noble Prophetic Sunna, he added. Allah, the Most Exalted says in this regard, "or feeding on a day of severe hunger an orphan of near relationship, or a needy person in misery. And then being among those who believed and advised one another to patience and advised one another to compassion. Those are the companions of the right."
 
Bringing another evidence from the noble Hadith on the same matter, Dr al Kaabi said that At-Tirmidhi reported that Abdullah Ibn Amr, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that the Prophet pbuh said, "O people, exchange the greetings of peace, offer food (to the poor and needy), honour ties of kinship and establish prayer during the night when people are asleep so that you may enter Paradise in peace."
Dr al Kaabi continued saying: "HH Sheikh Mohammed is a historical, talented leader. Allah, the Almighty, has blessed the UAE and the Arab nation with such a leader. Together with his brethren HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council, they form the leadership of wisdom and peace. They are the pioneers of innovation and unique civilised achievements in keeping harmony between authenticity, leadership and modernity along with the spirit of tolerance, peaceful co-existence, justice and moderation shared amongst the leadership, the government and people."
 













