addthis_pub="newawqaf";















At the auditorium of Sharjah University, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, met with around 300 Emirati teachers of Islamic education of the Ministry of Education. Present at the meeting were also HE Marwan al Sawaleh, Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education for Academic Affairs, Professor Khawla al Housani, Director of Vocational Training and Development, and a number of Awqaf's thought leaders.
The symposium focused on the strategy of the religious discourse that Awqaf strives to instil within the Emirati community through a number of stakeholders, including the ministry of education, the latter being the main power that drives the development of nations. Given the rapid changes in smart technology in our age, concerted efforts are required more than any other time in order to plan the future of the younger generations and the community in light of the UAE Vision 2021, the meeting further emphasised.
In view of this, such specialised symposium was organised in coordination between Awqaf and the Ministry of Education with the aim of transferring knowledge of Awqaf's specialised and well-versed scholars to the teachers of Islamic education. The ultimate goal is to establish scientific and practical cooperation aimed at achieving the highest levels of performance, nurturing generations that are armed with innovation skills and capability to analyse the extremist discourse and refute its alien ideas and destructive impacts.
Dr al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he addressed the main disciplines of the Islamic ideology, the challenges facing communities and ways of facing them.
"As the second academic term starts with the beginning of the 'Year of Giving', we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to continue granting welfare and well-being to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates," said Dr al Kaabi.
He then extended heartfelt thanks to HE Hussain Ibrahim al Hamadi, the Minister of Education, and his team of ministers, undersecretaries, experts, education consultants, professors and teachers for their efforts in nurturing the Emirati generations and preparing them to assume their duty towards serving their nation.
"It is my pleasure to meet such an elite group of male and female teachers of Islamic education, the aim being to join efforts in instilling the moderate religious discourse in the minds and hearts of our male and female students, raising them up on the Emirati authentic heritage that is based on the noble principles of Islam and the honourable ethics of their fathers and grandfathers," said Dr al Kaabi.
He continued saying, "Dear teachers, you are a role model for our children. You play an instrumental role in the development of their personalities, soundness of their minds, broadness of their knowledge and strength of their education. Thus, we rely on you immensely in assuming your educational mission in order to produce a stable and coherent community whose members are loyal to their identity and nation. You also play a key role in inculcating the moderate religious discourse, achieving intellectual and social security, protecting the Emirati community from the destructive ideologies and foreign practices that are inconsistent with our noble humanitarian values, promoting the principles of mercy, tolerance and peace, as well as spreading the culture of respect and cooperation amongst religions. This way, and thanks to your efforts, our daughters and sons will grow up with strong affiliation to their beloved nation and loyalty to their wise leadership."
Dr al Kaabi, then, highlighted Awqaf's vision, mission and strategic goals, such as promoting religious awareness, establishing the values of moderations and forbearance, spreading the correct concepts about the Islamic culture and its civilised image, enrooting the culture of innovation at work deeply in the organisation and enhancing the Fatwa reference in the UAE. 
He further outlined the key objectives of the UAE's religious discourse, including the establishment of a secure, coherent community whose members are adherent to their identity and loyal to their homeland, instilling the moderate religious approach, realising intellectual and social security, protecting the UAE society from the destructive ideologies and foreign practices that are inconsistent with our noble humanitarian values, promoting the principles of forbearance, tolerance and peace, and disseminating the culture of respect and cooperation amongst religions.
Concerning efforts to ensure the moderate religious approach, Dr al Kaabi underlined Awqaf's commitment to combating extremists and preventing them from disseminating their radical ideology throughout any religious, media or educational outlet in the UAE. Measures taken by Awqaf in this regard include putting into effect the Cabinet decision no 39 of 2012 on safeguarding the sanctity of mosques and prohibiting their use for meetings, delivering lectures and education without official approvals. Awqaf also strives for putting into administration the legal monitoring capacity of mosque inspectors to report violations, added Dr al Kaabi.
Other measures highlighted by Dr al Kaabi included continuous assessment of Awqaf's Imams, Khateebs, preachers and Quran tutors, the aim being to exclude those of extremist views. This was achieved by adopting precise standards in employing those who are involved with the religious discourse. Such standards stipulate adherence to the moderate approach and prohibiting engagement with any untrusted or forbidden religious or political group, Dr al Kaabi explained.
Dr al Kaabi also shed light on the UAE antidiscrimination and anti-hatred law, noting that Awqaf printed the articles of the said law and distributed it to all its members. Moreover, Awqaf's members signed on the charter of tolerance that provides for the commitment to respecting the divine religions and others' beliefs, promoting co-existence and harmony amongst all the constituents of the Emirati society, and abandoning discrimination between individuals and groups. It further stresses the need for abandoning any statement that may connote to hatred, discrimination or sectarianism.
Concluding his speech, Dr al Kaabi briefed the audience on the most important achievements by Awqaf, highlighting the accomplishments of the committee for unified curriculums that was jointly formed with the Ministry of Education with regards to development of the Islamic education curriculum.
His remarks attracted the attention of the teachers who expressed their admiration of the remarkable development of the religious discourse in the UAE and Awqaf's role on the local, regional and international arenas in instilling such discourse, proving high level of efficiency in promoting and highlighting it all over the world.
On his part, HE Marwan al Sawaleh, the Ministry's undersecretary, hailed the outcomes of the meeting, extending his thanks and appreciation for Dr al Kaabi. He also praised the productive cooperation between the two leading entities in the UAE.
"This meeting, as well as similar ones, are conducive to bolstering the unity of the moderate religious discourse in the UAE, disseminating the concepts of tolerance and moderation amongst the teachers of Islamic education, across the education medium and amongst students alike. This is consistent with the UAE wise leadership's vision in instilling the true principles of Islam," said al Sawaleh.
"I highly value the fruitful efforts by HE the Minister of Education in establishing a significant cooperation with Awqaf. Such cooperation should reflect in positive participation in conducting specialised training for teachers, nurturing younger generation that keep the UAE in their hearts and minds, and ultimately realising a state-of-the-art education," al Sawaleh concluded.
On another level, the symposium underscored the concept of the rules of jurisprudence in Islam and their importance in highlighting the jurisprudential fundamentals. Furthermore, it addressed the economic system in Islam and its philosophy, finance and banking system in Islam, as well as the future of the economic system and its potential to surmount the future challenges through the scholars of the Official Fatwa Centre in the UAE.       
 













