addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Istisqaa prayer (prayer for rain) was established in around 300 mosques across the UAE in response to the call of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, on all Muslims in the country to pray to Allah to bless the land with rain and mercy.
The prayer was performed by HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme and Ruler of Ajman, HH Sheik Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Hamad Al Sharqi, the Crown Prince of Fujairah, Sheikh Salim bin Abdul Rahman al Qasmi, Head of the Office of HH the Sharjah Ruler, Sheikh Khalid Issam al Qasmi, Chairman of the Department of Civil Aviation in Sharjah, Sheikh Saqr bin Mohammed Al Qasmi, Chairman of the Sharjah Sports Council, Sheikh Faisal bin Sultan al Qasmi, Sheikh Mohammed bin Saud bin Rashid al Mualla, Chairman of the Board of Trustee of the Rashid Bin Ahmed al Mualla Award for Holy Quran and Islamic Culture, Sheikh Marwan bin Rashid al Mualla, Chairman of Land and Property Department of Umm Al Quwain, Sheikh Hazza bin Tahnoon Al Nahyan, Undersecretary of the Court of the Abu Dhabi Ruler's Representative in the Eastern Region, and HE Dr Mohammed Matar al  Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, who performed the prayer at the Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi.      
Other top officials who offered the prayer included HE Mohammed Hamad Azzan al Mazrouei, Undersecretary of the Court of the Abu Dhabi Ruler's Representative in the Western Region, and a number of government department managers along with a host of worshipers.
Awqaf further assigned several Imams to perform the prayer for rain at schools across the country.
After the prayer, the Imam delivered two sermons in the first of which he said: "Oh Allah! The Ever-Living, the Sustainer of all existence, I ask for your forgiveness and I turn repentant unto you. All praise is due to Allah. He saves whoever implores to Him and responds to the invocations of supplicants when they call upon Him. He spread out the earth and raised the sky and made from water every living thing. To Him belongs all the Dominion and He does what He wills with regards to it. The Most Exalted, His generosity and kindness encompass all His Creation, "and there is no creature on earth but that upon Allah is its provision, and He knows its place of dwelling and place of storage. All is in a clear register."
Then the Imam continued saying: "I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him belongs all the Dominion and all thanks are due to him. Indeed, He is over all things competent, 'and it is He who sends down the rain after they had despaired and spreads His mercy. And He is the Protector, the Praiseworthy.' I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment."
Following that, he urged the worshipers to obey Allah, the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do."
Addressing Muslims, the Imam said, "Allah, the Almighty, enjoined upon His servants to seek refuge with Him, implore to Him submissively and supplicate to Him in hope and fear. Allah, the most Exalted says, "and invoke Him in fear and aspiration. Indeed, the mercy of Allah is near to the doers of good." Allah bestows His bounties upon His servants that they may grateful to Him. He tests the believers that they may repent unto Him and seek His forgiveness. As such, the Almighty removes from those who repent their affliction, alleviate their sorrows, shows mercy on their weak ones, makes milk flow in the udders of their sheep and sends them rain to water their plants. Indeed, such is the tradition of Allah in treating His Creation and His Wisdom in managing His Dominion."
In this sense, amongst the greatest deeds that are conducive to draw a believer closer to their Lord is to repent to Him and ask for His forgiveness frequently. Truly, seeking Allah's pardoning continuously is a way to receive Allah's blessings. It is a cause for rain to fall, wealth and children to increase and the crops to grow. In evidence of this, Allah, the Most Gracious, in His holy Book says in the story of Noah, "and said, 'Ask forgiveness of your Lord. Indeed, He is ever a Perpetual Forgiver. He will send [rain from] the sky upon you in [continuing] showers and give you increase in wealth and children and provide for you gardens and provide for you rivers," he added.
More to the point, turning to Allah in repentance leads to Allah's mercy and increased provisions in this world, for the Almighty informs us the words of Hud saying, "and [saying], 'Seek forgiveness of your Lord and repent to Him, [and] He will let you enjoy a good provision for a specified term and give every doer of favour his favour," the Imam further highlighted.
Another merit of repentance is that it is a reason for increasing strength as evidenced in the Most Exalted saying: "and O my people, ask forgiveness of your Lord and then repent to Him. He will send [rain from] the sky upon you in showers and increase you in strength [added] to your strength," he explained.
The Imam then advised the worshipers saying, "Indeed, Allah is Generous in His giving and endows His favours abundantly upon whoever seeks His grace. He also responds to those who call upon Him. In this regard, it was narrated that a Bedouin came to the Messenger of Allah pbuh and said, 'O Messenger of Allah! Our possessions are being destroyed and the children are hungry; please invoke Allah (for rain)'. So the Prophet pbuh raised his hands. The narrator said, 'at that time there was not a trace of cloud in the sky. By Him in Whose Hands my soul is as soon as he lowered his hands, clouds gathered like mountains, and before he got down from the pulpit, I saw the rain falling on the beard of the Prophet. It rained that day, the next day, the third day, the fourth day till the next Friday.'
"The same Bedouin stood up and said, 'O Allah's Messenger pbuh! The houses have collapsed, our possessions and livestock have been drowned; please invoke Allah (to protect us)'. So the Prophet pbuh raised both his hands and said, 'O Allah! Round about us and not on us.' So, in whatever direction he pointed with his hands, the clouds dispersed and cleared away, and Medina's (sky) became clear as a hole in between the clouds. The valley of Qanat remained flooded, for one month, none came from outside but talked about the abundant rain," the Imam added.
This incident teaches us that we should seek refuge with Allah, the Most Compassionate, at times of hardship and supplicate to Him humbly and in submission. The Almighty says, "is He [not best] who responds to the desperate one when he calls upon Him and removes evil?"
It is, therefore, such a beautiful thing to resort to Allah humbly and in submission and ask Him desperately. We should relentlessly and sincerely pray to Him and seek His forgiveness because it is a cause for the fall of rain and the engineering of land, the Imam underlined. 
The Imam concluded the first Khutba supplicating, "With this in mind, we ask Allah, Whose mercy encompasses all things, to send us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are despondent. O the Entirely Merciful in this world and the Hereafter, make us amongst those who are blessed with Your mercy, O the Most Generous. O Allah, we seek Your grace to fulfil our wish, provide us and make us amongst those whose repentance is accepted and whose request for rain is answered. O Allah, we implore to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: 'O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you.'"
In the second Khutba the Imam said: "Oh Allah, I ask for your forgiveness (repeated eight times). Oh Allah! The Ever-Living, the Self-subsisting, The Eternal, I ask for your forgiveness and I turn repentant unto you."
All praise is due to Allah, the Lords of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
Then the Imam addressed the worshipers saying, "O Seekers of Forgiveness, you are advised to show remorse and turn to your Lord in repentance. You are also asked to worship Him as He should be worshiped and praise Him as He should be praised."
Truly, Allah, the Almighty, is, to the people, is Kind and Merciful. His mercy is broader than that of the mother towards her children. Thus, when we resort to Him with repentance, ask for His forgiveness, and constantly indulge in acts of goodness in the night and during the day, Allah, by His Grace, will bestow upon us from His mercy plentifully. He will provide us from His bounties, send us productive, saving rain, bless us in our wealth and offspring and help us with a lifelong prosperity and happiness, he added.
Knowing this, you are urged to raise your hands humbly to Allah, the Almighty, and supplicate to Him with assurance that the Most Exalted is Magnanimous and Generous. He will never repel His servants' supplications. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Your Lord is Modest and Generous, and will never turn away empty the hands of His servant when he raises them to Him (in supplication)," he further underlined.
That is said, we pray to Allah to send us saving rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! Oh Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, send us a helpful, productive, wholesome, and continuous rain, the Imam said.
He then supplicated to Allah saying:
O Allah send down to us a blessed and beneficial rain and display Your mercy to Your servants and give life to Your dead lands. O Allah, bless us with merciful rain.
O Allah, let our crops grow, and let the udders be refilled. Give us from the blessings of the sky and grow for us from the blessings of the earth, You are the Ever Providing.
O Allah! Give us rain and make of what You have revealed to us a strength for us and capacity to be obedient to You. O Allah, we are Your servants, so bestow Your mercy upon us. You are the Most Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
O Allah, accept our supplications for You are the Most Generous, the Most Gracious. O Allah, You are the Almighty and there is no deity save You. You are The All Rich, The Independent and we are the poor, the dependent. O Allah, send us saving rain and make it beneficial and healthy.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, we beseech You to grant peace and blessing upon Your Servant and Messenger Muhammad. May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali.
The Imam concluded by saying, "All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds."  
 













