addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf condemned the terrorist attack that targeted the Kandahar's governor guesthouse in Afghanistan, killing a number of elite Emirati diplomats, stressing that such blind terrorism that brings agony to the heart and mind of every Arab, Muslim and human being, regardless of their religion or nationality, does not represent Islam's values and principles nor does it fall within the humanitarian qualities neither in form nor in practice. It rather continues to insistently distort the holiest divine message, its rituals, values and symbols as well as the human civilisation through a foolish and dark ideology being manipulated with by the ignorant, brutal leaders of the terrorist groups. Such criminal behaviour targets the entire foundations of human civilisation and the capabilities of nations.
Commenting on the sad occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said, "The higher management of Awqaf alongside all of its scholars, Imams, Khateebs, Muftis and employees share the pain caused by such tragic attack on UAE's men of giving, goodness and humanitarian development who were on a mission to carry out a number of humanitarian, educational and developmental projects in Afghanistan in implementation of the instructions of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him."
"Such heinous act of terrorism has no noble, legitimate, humanitarian or religious goals. It is no more than heedless practices aimed at destroying the divine, human and civilizational foundations of people," added Dr al Kaabi.
"We, thus, firmly say to such groups: Stop distorting the greatest divine message. You will, by Allah's grace, be defeated, while Islam, on the other hand, will continue to be an oasis of peace, safety, guidance, cooperation and education for the whole humanity," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
That is said, Awqaf would like to extend its heartfelt condolences to HH the UAE President, UAE wise leadership and giving people and to the martyrs families. May Allah, the Most Exalted, protect the nation from any calamity and adversity, Dr al Kaabi concluded.    
 













