addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has completed the construction of 54 new mosque in Al Ain city during the current year in addition to the 40 mosques opened last year, raising to 94 the number of mosques completed over 2016-2017, according to Awqaf's branch at Al Ain. The new mosques are located in the city and its outskirts, on the Abu Dhabi-Al Ain and Dubai-Al Ain highways.
Commenting on the achievement, Abdul Aziz al Ghaithi, Director of the Awqaf branch at Al Ain, said that in its strategic plan for building mosques, Awqaf focused on constructing the mosques on highways, in remote areas and in the city centre. There was a substantial improvement in mosques' design and construction criteria in terms of the structure, furniture, maintenance, providing all means of comfort for prayers to best perform their prayers, in addition to the availability of all services necessary for them, al Ghaithi highlighted. 
"Awqaf ensured adoption of high standards in building the mosques in the industrial area, Hili Industrial Area and areas with high population density. The aim is to provide spacious comfortable mosques to replace the haphazard and caravan (temporary) mosques, which were razed as they were neither licensed by municipality nor by Awqaf, failing to meet basic safety standards, and thereby putting the lives of worshipers themselves in danger. Some of those were replaced by new mosques based on the need of each area," al Ghaithi underlined. 
The new mosques, he added, feature all the sustainability standards in terms of energy and water saving and are compliant with the requirements of Abu Dhabi Council for Urban Planning as well as the standards defined for those with special needs. The new requirements for mosque building include attaching a prayer room for women even in mosques on highways, he explained, noting that Awqaf's strategy for future mosque construction is compliant with the requirements of the Abu Dhabi Council for Urban Planning and those of Al Ain's Municipality city planning. 
Al Ghaithi further underscored that the new building of the Sheikh Hazza Mosque, a large mosque at Al Mutaredh area, is expected to be completed within two months, replacing the old one. Awqaf constructed a number of new mosques that can accommodate for 1500 to 2000 worshipers, he said. The new mosques are, in general, consistent with the UAE heritage and include attachments and halls for Quran memorisation, lessons for males and females and women's Musalla. Unlike the old mosques, the new ones do not have columns, larger in space in order to accommodate a bigger number of worshipers, and comprise extra number of water closets and ablution corners, al Ghaithi concluded.
 













