addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, reiterated Awqaf's keen interest in bolstering cooperation and coordination with all countries around the world, the aim being to highlight the tolerant principles of Islam and its moderate discourse. This is also aimed at inviting the sons of the nation to combat violence and extremism and avoid fanaticism, he added, noting that Awqaf strives, in this connection, to attract elite scholars and preachers from such countries that have large Muslim community, India being the most important amongst them.
"The UAE is keenly interested in making all the religious sciences available in the languages used by all those who live on its land, including the Indian community. To this effect, a number of mosques have been allocated in each of the Emirates to deliver Friday sermons (Khutba), lessons and lectures in Urdu. This is part of the efforts aimed at unifying the religious and cultural resources, goals and topics that are common to all the constituents of the society," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed that the Official Fatwa Centre, made arrangements with Indian, Fiqh (jurisprudence) scholars to join the centre and deliver Fatwas in Urdu, the latter being a common language spoken by the Indian and Pakistani communities, amongst others. To cater for the daily needs of non-Arabic speakers in the UAE, the Fatwa Centre receives enquiries and answer them in Arabic, English and Urdu, he added.
On another level, Dr al Kaabi underscored the keen interest of the UAE and India to bolster their cooperation relationship in various arenas, noting that such cooperation witnessed remarkable growth over the past few decades, thanks to the harmonious political views of both countries and their mutual economic interests.
"Such harmony has been achieved thanks to the UAE's foreign policy set by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, in which he placed a great attention to strengthening ties with India. Moreover, he always showed a welcoming attitude to the Indian scholars," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
"Tolerance is an approach that is adhered to in the UAE, one that the UAE nurtures in the minds and hearts of Emiratis and the members of other nationalities living on its land too. This is done by establishing a modern country in terms of religion, education and economy, as well as through openness to all the positive aspects of life," Dr al Kaabi explained.
He further emphasised that the Indian-Emirati relationships, especially in religious affairs, are deep and well-established since decades. This is reflected in the fact that the UAE mosques have always attracted, and are still attracting, elite Indian Imams, Khateebs, Muezzins, Quran tutors and preachers those are academically qualified, each in their specialisation. Those are receiving remarkable appreciation and care and are fulfilling their praiseworthy role officially and socially, with a view to further strengthen the relationship between the UAE and India, said Dr al Kaabi. 
Dr al Kaabi also shed light on the care given by the Programme of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, to hosting a selected group of Indian scholars and thinkers during the holy month of Ramadan every year in order to take part in delivering lessons and lectures at the country's mosques, universities and gatherings.
"Based on the values of religious tolerance and civilised cultural co-existence amongst all the constituents of the Emirati society, in 1969, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, gifted a piece of land to the Indian Christian community in the UAE for constructing a church in the capital Abu Dhabi. Ever since, the church has been fulfilling its religious role just as similar to the other Indian sects that exist in the country," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 
 













