addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE mosques represent the meanings of tolerance, forbearance and peace, being beacons of knowledge and civilisation through their educational and awareness promoting role. They form edifices of guidance, moderation, tranquillity and good ethics. Credits go to the UAE wise leadership's great and continuous support to mosques, the number of which stood at 5470 mosques across the emirates as of November 2016.
Out of the total number of mosques in the UAE, there are 674 mosques in Abu Dhabi, 1073 in Al Ain, 935 in the West Region, 389 in Dubai, 727 in Sharjah and Khor Fakkan, in  addition to 287 mosques in Ajman, 165 in Umm Al Quwain, 914 in Ras Al Khaimah, and 360 mosques in Fujairah.
Awqaf has completed the construction of 54 new mosque in Al Ain city during the current year in addition to the 40 mosques opened last year, raising to 94 the number of mosques completed over 2016-2017, according to Awqaf's branch at Al Ain. The mosques are located in the city and its outskirts, on the Abu Dhabi-Al Ain and Dubai-Al Ain highways.
 
Cultural Landmarks
Thanks to the full care taken by UAE prudent leadership, mosques have become amongst the most prominent landmarks in the country. The UAE Cabinet decision concerning mosques' care programme is part of such efforts. It is aimed at boosting mosques' status as cultural landmarks built according to specific standards laid down by the competent authorities.
The programme also aims at highlighting mosques' position as beacons for spreading knowledge and teaching the holy Quran. So none but the competent as well as authorised teachers and scholars can teach there. No deviant thoughts shall be allowed in, nor shall mosques be used for promoting partisanship and division. The same applies to collecting donations, distributing books and leaflets, putting on posters, sleeping inside mosques or organising banquets there without prior consent of authorities in charge. This way, mosques will be safe oases for worship, faith, tranquillity and assurance of the heart.
 More to the point, Awqaf has opened a large number of mosques across the UAE during 2016, including Ali Khalfan Al Dhaheri mosque in Musaffah Industrial area, raising the number of mosques in the area to 39. Other examples also include Afraa Al Qubaisi mosque in Shakhboot City, Mubarak and Matar Al Muhairi in al Bateen, in addition to constructing 3 mosques in the Western Region.
Martyrs' names
As part of an initiative aimed at engaging all segments of the society in expressing their pride of the sacrifices made by the UAE martyrs in defending their country, the Martyrs' Families' Affairs Office at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince's Court announced that a number of mosques across the UAE have been named after the nation's martyrs. The initiative coincided with a nationwide campaign launched under the hashtag "#UAE is proud of you" to commemorate their sacrifices.
On another level, the yearly customer satisfaction survey results for mosque-goers in 2015 showed that 91.58 of worshipers were satisfied with the services offered at the houses of Allah.
Commenting on the achievement, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said, "Through elevating the level of services offered in the houses of Allah, the Most Exalted, our foremost goal is to protect them against the extremist ideologies and highlight their cultural role as edifices of guidance, moderation, tolerance, cleanliness, spiritual and environmental beauty."
Dr al Kaabi further underlined the great continuous support to Awqaf's plans and projects aimed at serving Islam and developing the community's culture by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. Thanks to their support, we achieved such results that are conducive to touch everybody's heart with happiness. Such support reflects the great interest showed by our wise leadership in mosques and their goers as well as in all that may bring happiness to the community, he added.
The Charter of Tolerance
On another note, Dr al Kaabi shed light on the Charter of Tolerance recently issued by Awqaf, noting that it is adhered to by all Awqaf's employees. The charter provides for the commitment to respecting all the divine religions and avoiding any form of insult to others' beliefs. It also calls for preserving the civilised image of the UAE mosques and serving its mission in promoting the culture of tolerance and peaceful co-existence between all the constituents of the UAE society. It further stresses the need to avoid any form of discrimination, strengthen love and harmony in the community and combat the discourse of hatred, he explained.
Dr al Kaabi then clarified that the religious discourse in the UAE is based on the objective of achieving a stable, harmonious society, preserving the national identity and strengthening loyalty to the homeland. It is also aimed at achieving intellectual and social security, protecting the UAE
community against the destructive ideologies and reinforcing the principles of forbearance, mercy and peace, in addition to promoting the culture of respect to and cooperation with the followers of other religions.
"Awqaf strived to develop the lessons in mosques. In doing so, it highlights the civilised image of mosques as beacons of knowledge and education and introduce systematic scientific lessons that are conducive to benefit both the worshipers and their families. Ultimately, their enlightening effect should reach to all members of the community. Efforts in this connection also included unifying the lessons in mosques so that the same topic should be delivered in all the mosques across the UAE simultaneously. Moreover, none but the competent as well as authorised teachers who are adherent to the moderate discourse can teach there," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
Fatwa Centre 
Highlighting the significant role played by Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre, Dr al Kaabi said, "Since its inception, the centre answered more than 2.85 million queries, of them 2.4 million were answered via Awqaf's toll free number, 282000 via SMS service, and over 64000 queries were answered through Awqaf's website."
He further stressed that unifying and regulating Fatwa practices in the UAE, preventing personal or improvised Fatwas and rebutting extremist and terrorist Fatwas are amongst the objectives of Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre. It is also aimed at establishing direct contact between people from all walks of life and Islamic law scholars, he added, noting that the centre also contributes to learning more about the society's needs, and helping people resolve their problems in compliance with Islamic Shariaa.
Concerning the monitoring of religious publications, Dr al Kaabi noted that Awqaf cooperate with the National Media Council in monitoring the religious publications that enter the UAE through all the official outlets.
 
Friday Sermons promotes religious awareness and good ethics 
Moving to the methodology that Awqaf adopts in setting the annual preaching plan, Dr al Kaabi clarified that its preparation was based on surveying the community needs while considering religious, national and international occasions as well. This is aimed at nurturing the culture of co-existence, combating the ideologies of extremism, further strengthening loyalty and affiliation to the UAE and its wise leadership, and highlighting the UAE's efforts and achievements in all he humanitarian and Islamic fields, he added.
"Friday sermons (Khutba) focus on promoting the community's religious awareness in such matters as education, social relationships, good manners, kindness towards others, tolerance, co-existence, moderation, forbearance and confronting the extremist and terrorist ideologies. No speech about political parties, religious sects, or groups shall be allowed, nor shall sermons be used for promoting partisanship and division. The same applies to talking about other people and entities and delving into subjects that stir disagreement and conflict," underscored Dr al Kaabi.
Adhering to such moderate discourse, the Friday sermons on Awqaf's website attracted in 2016 more than 5.3 million visitors from around 217 countries from around the world, an average of 4446 visits per week, Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
Quran memorisation 
On another level, Dr al Kaabi underlined the role played by Quran memorisation centres in the UAE, being educational institutions dedicated to teaching the holy Quran and Tafseer (interpretation of its meanings). In doing this, they contribute to building individuals' character based on the noble Quranic principles and the authentic national values that promote tolerance. In this regard, he added, Awqaf oversees these memorisation centres and lay down rules and regulations that help organise their operation, in addition to its responsibility for choosing Quran tutors and developing their skills through training programmes and workshops as well as conducting performance assessment of the tutors and administrative staff in coordination with the competent entities. 
Furthermore, Awqaf undertakes the responsibility for developing and unifying curriculums for the Quran memorisation centres that include Quran sciences, worships, moral education, in addition to controlling the centres and preventing using them to promote extremist ideas amongst the students, Dr al Kaabi further explained.  
With more than 580 Quran memorisation centres across the UAE, Awqaf currently caters for more than 42000 students. The centres are equipped with all that may encourage the male and female youngsters to memorise the book of Allah, he said.
Education Curricula 
Regarding Islamic education, Dr al Kaabi emphasised that a joint committee from Awqaf, the Ministry of Education and Abu Dhabi Education Council works on developing the Islamic education curricula. In this process, the committee ensures that such teaching materials are free of any texts or topics that contain extremist ideas, as well as makes sure that the religious texts are interpreted and used correctly.   
Safe Society 
Awqaf strived to implement the UAE wise leadership's strategy in establishing a secure, safe, coherent society whose members are loyal to their identity. This was achieved through instilling the principles of forbearance and religious moderation, promoting tolerance and, ultimately, achieving intellectual and social security, Dr al Kaabi concluded
 













