addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, visited the holy Quran memorisation centres in Abu Dhabi. Dr al Kaabi was accompanied by HE Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Executive Director of Awqaf, and a number of its concerned department managers.
Concluding his tour, Dr al Kaabi said that Quran memorisation centres across the UAE received more than 45 thousand male and female students this year. The students belong to various levels including the "Quran Buds" (youngsters), higher age groups, memorisation level, and the higher stage of licensing with sound chain of authorities, the latter being one of Awqaf's most recent initiatives that is unique and unprecedented in the Islamic world, Dr al Kaabi added.
"Such achievements are consistent with the instructions of the UAE wise leadership to raise generations based on the principle of moderation, the noble values of Islam and good conduct. This should be conducive to instil in them pride of their nation's authentic values and loyalty to their leaders. It will further encourage them to seek knowledge and its means in order to contribute to shaping the future of their country in accordance with the objectives that our founding father sought out when he laid down the foundations for those specialised centres," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
"Thanks to the distinguished specialised curriculums that Awqaf prepared for the Quranic centres, parents are showing growing interest in sending their children to memorise the holy Quran. Credits also go to the Quranic educational motivating tools offered in the centres, the aim being to develop the students' language skills, hone their talents in touching the magnificence of their Arabic language, and improve their fluency in reading it and reciting the Quranic verses in a beautiful way. This way, their voices will impart an atmosphere of tranquillity and comfort at their classrooms as well as homes," Dr al Kaabi further highlighted.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "The UAE is witnessing rapid developments in all walks of life. Keeping pace with such developments, the Quranic centres made remarkable achievements, thanks to the great and continuous support they receive from the UAE astute leadership. To this effect, Awqaf established model Quran memorisation centres that are first of their kind in terms of structure, classrooms, quality of curriculums, competence of tutors and the modern methods they apply."
"In this sense, in order to boost the continuous improvement march in the Quranic centres, this visit seeks to check the status of enacting the new initiatives that Awqaf launched for these centres, especially the 'Ya Jibal Oubi' (O mountains, praise Allah). The initiative is aimed at helping the students to learn the correct way of reading and the rules of recitation and Tajweed. Another point of focus in the visit is the initiative of licensing with sound chain of authorities at national level, an initiative which started its first course with 86 students from both genders, who memorised the full Quran," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
At the end of the tour, Dr al Kaabi met with all the managers of all female centres across Awqaf's branches all over the UAE. The meeting was held at the "Al Bait Mitwahid" (our home is united) centre in Khalifa city.
At the beginning of the meeting, Dr al Kaabi hailed the substantial care and support to Quran memorisation centres by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi, then, discussed putting into effect the "Ya Jibal Oubi" initiative, the aim being nurturing and honing the skills of Emiratis who are gifted with beautiful reciting voices. Those reciters will, then, be offered specialised training, helping them to become recites of the holy Quran worldwide. They will also be rewarded by offering them employment at mosques, in addition to providing the national radio and TV programmes with their beautiful recitations, he added.
Dr al Kaabi concluded the meeting with a call on all the male and female tutors, supervisors and administrative staff to embrace such ethics of the holy Quran as kindness, mercy and sincerity. He also urged them to further develop themselves in order to set a role model, especially in memorisation and good recitation.
 













