addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the One, the Unique, the Eternal Refuge. To Him all praise is due as befitting to His Sublime Countenance and Supreme Status. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted, in line with His orders: "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah . Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al-Baqara: 281).
O Worshipers,
Allah, the Most Exalted created people from one origin; all human beings are the sons of Adam and Adam was created from dust. The Almighty says, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another. Indeed, the most noble of you in the sight of Allah is the most righteous of you. Indeed, Allah is Knowing and Acquainted." (Al-Hujurat: 13).
Reflecting on this Aya, one can realise that it lays emphasis on the civilised human relationships that are based on cooperation, knowing each other, constructive dialogue, kind treatment and safeguarding of man's honour and rights. It also calls for positive communication amongst peoples and cultures, avoiding sectarianism and conflicts, respect for cultural diversity and other's opinions. This is because the differences in opinion, race or religion are of the divine arrangements and one of Allah's signs.
This is evidenced in the Almighty's saying, "and of His signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth and the diversity of your languages and your colours. Indeed in that are signs for those of knowledge." (Ar-Room: 22). He also says, "and if your Lord had willed, He could have made mankind one community; but they will not cease to differ. Except whom your Lord has given mercy and for that He created them." (Hood: 118-119).
Indeed, Islam is a religion that calls for respecting the humanity of mankind with no discrimination on basis of race or colour. On this account, the Messenger of Allah pbuh gave a speech in which he said, "O mankind! Your Lord is one and your father Adam is one. There is no advantage for an Arab over a foreigner, nor for a foreigner over an Arab, and neither white skin over black skin nor black skin over white skin, except by righteousness."
Our Master Muhammad pbuh further reflected such meanings when he objected to the attitude of Abu Dhar Al Ghifari, may Allah be pleased with him, for abusing a man with his mother's colour. He pbuh said to him in disapproving way, "Did you abuse him by calling his mother with bad names?"
O Servants of Allah,
Amongst the foundations that the Prophet pbuh laid down in the Charter of Medina were the rights of citizenship and extending a bridge for an eternal human civilisation that is based on love and peace. As a result, Medina became an oasis of safety and tranquillity. Under the Charter of Medina, the Prophet pbuh safeguarded the right of citizenship for all residents of the city. To this effect, members of the society of all races, tongues and religions were guaranteed the right to cherish stability and freedom. They all had equal rights to be protected in their religion, lives, wealth and integrity without any discrimination.
Indeed, nurturing such culture in the minds and hearts of all members of the community is a responsibility that is shared amongst all the institutions in the society, including family, school and all members of the community. All of them should strive to instil an anti-sectarian culture in the minds and hearts of our generations. We should teach our generations that all constituents of the society have equal rights and should be treated with justice and respect.
Dear Muslims,
There are numerous reasons for us to combat sectarianism, the latter being a reason for division and discord and causes harm rather than benefiting. Undoubtedly, it weakens the community and leads for conflicts and differences. This is because sectarians are intolerant of others and claim that they are alone the righteous. About them, Allah says, "and think that they are [standing] on something." (Al-Mujadila: 18). They do not accept others as Allah the Almighty describes them: "each faction, in what it has, rejoicing." (Al-Mouminoon: 53). As such they prevail their sect's fanatic principles and ideas over the principles and values that are conducive to unite the community.
Indeed, out of His mercy, Allah, the Most Exalted, warned His servants against the vices of such attitudes. The Most High says, "and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage." (Al-Anfal- 46). This noble Aya describes the evil results of division and discord, the latter being a cause for sectarianism and differences, which in turn increase conflicts and struggles. Allah, the Most Sublime, orders us not follow such path as he says, "and, [moreover], this is My path, which is straight, so follow it; and do not follow [other] ways, for you will be separated from His way. This has He instructed you that you may become righteous."  (Al-Anaam: 153).
More to the point, sectarianism leads its followers to fall into sins by promoting partisanship and separation, making lawful violence and blood shedding, justifying acts that cause harm to others, and calling for dispute and fight. While following such path, each party would think that Allah, the Most Exalted, approves their actions and is satisfied with their efforts, while the truth is contrary to that. As a result of their deviated methods, they will be the utmost losers on the Day of Judgment as Allah, the Almighty describes them: "[They are] those whose effort is lost in worldly life, while they think that they are doing well in work." (Al-Kahf: 104).  
O Believers,
Please know that Allah the Almighty enjoined upon the believers to hold firmly to unity all together and forbade them from discord and division. In addition to the guidance of the Quran, the Prophet pbuh also disassociated himself from those who support sectarianism and rejected fanaticism in all its forms.
In evidence of this, it was narrated that once the Muhajireen (migrants) came into conflicts with the Ansar (the supporters), so one of the first group said, "O the Ansar!" And a man from the Ansar said, "O the Muhajireen!" The Messenger of Allah pbuh heard that and said, "leave it (that call)."
No wonder, because partisanship is against the true citizenship. Sectarians give priority to their sect over their belonging to their homeland. Truly, such kind of partiality and discrimination based on race, colour or religion is absolutely abhorred by Islam and rejected by all well-meaning and open minded people and laws. This is because it rips apart the human structure and prevents co-existence amongst human beings who are naturally characterised by diversity and variances.
Sectarianism, is, therefore, a destructive and evil power to our present, harmful for our future and hinders any cultural progress and prosperity.
With this in mind, we seek Allah's Grace, to guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that the most important thing we should advise each other about is obeying Allah, the Most Exalted and Sublime, and avoid sectarianism. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Verily, Allah does not look at your forms or your wealth, rather He looks at your hearts and your deeds."
Following the guidance of the Quran and Sunna of the Prophet pbuh, the UAE has promoted the principle of respect of others and laid the foundations for instilling it deep in the minds of the members of the community. To this effect, it set such laws and regulations that guarantee respect of others as the anti-discrimination law which came in line with the tolerant teachings of Islam. It prohibits all acts that may promote division or incite struggles amongst individuals or groups based on religion, sect, creed or race.
The aim of such law is to instil the principle of tolerance deep in the community, embodying a practical application of the principle of peaceful co-existence in the society. It further sends a message to world to combat discrimination and sectarianism.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [ Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [ Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. 
O Lord, may we ask you to admit us, our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us as well as all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. 
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of the temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













