addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Heading the Happiness and Positivity Council, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, hailed the pioneering vision of the UAE wise leadership that placed on top of its priorities bringing happiness to its people and all those living in the UAE, whether residents, tourists or visitors. The country's modern initiatives inspired the world's leaders and best minds as well as the peoples of contemporary age to live under all the tents of happiness, he clarified.
During the meeting, Dr al Kaabi presented the national programme for happiness and positivity and its goals, which are aimed at instilling the culture of happiness and positivity as a lifestyle in the UAE, promote awareness of the community about its importance and boost the country's status as a global hub for happiness and positivity.
The council, then, endorsed 15 initiatives that Awqaf will launch in 2017. In this sense, HE Dr al Kaabi announced the immediate launch of "Al Khair Saada" (Giving is happiness) through Twitter using a hash-tag that reflects the essence of the initiative.
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that during the current year, Awqaf will introduce its initiatives consecutively through the departments of mosques, Waqf, Iftaa, preaching, research and studies. This should contribute to boosting the UAE government's efforts aimed at achieving happiness of the community, he added.
In this context, Awqaf will promote the culture of tolerance and moderation that form the essence of Islam as well as all its principles that Allah the Almighty enjoined for the prosperity of the universe, Dr al Kaabi explained. These include compassion, forbearance and cooperation in righteousness and piety so that all members of the community should cherish welfare and prosperity. This way, the concept of "Giving is happiness" will be materialised wherever acts of goodness have been performed and whenever the hands of giving, cooperation and openness to others have been extended.
In this regard, one of the key initiatives that Awqaf will launch is the national charter for happiness for all its employees to offer distinguished services that are conducive to touch the hearts of customers with happiness in a way that exceeds their expectations. This is in line with the charter of customer service that was launched by HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai.
Efforts in this context also include conducting training workshops, seminars and events, the aim being to promote the culture of happiness and positivity in coordination with the competent entities. On another level, Awqaf will further participate in national and international events that are related to happiness and positivity and will launch a number of competitions in order to foster the spirit of happiness in the community. Those include a contest under the motto "Health is happiness", a positivity contest for Awqaf's branches, the best thought proposed for customers' happiness, and the best positive employee contest, in addition to a number of events that will be announced respectively at a later stage.        
 
 













