addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I praise Him, the Most Exalted, as befitting to His Sublime Countenance and Supreme Status. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He is the Absolute Sovereign, the Truth, the Manifest, and over all things He is competent. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He is the best of Allah's Creation and the dearest to Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted, in line with His orders: "and take provisions, but indeed, the best provision is fear of Allah. And fear Me, O you of understanding." (Al-Baqara: 197).
Dear Muslims
The Messenger of Allah pbuh once said, "Indeed, your body has a right on you; and your Lord has a right on you; and your family has a right on you... So you should give the rights of all those who have a right on you." In this sense, one of the rights that a person should give to his body is protecting it from weakness and infirmity. Indeed, a strong and healthy body is of great help to human beings in their lives. Strong and healthy people can perform their daily work and tasks properly and help others too.  
In many places in the holy Book, Allah, the Almighty, stressed the importance for one to maintain physical fitness. For instance, this was illustrated through the story of Musa puh when he came to the well of Madyan and "found there a crowd of people watering [their flocks], and he found aside from them two women driving back [their flocks]. He said, 'What is your circumstance?' They said, 'We do not water until the shepherds dispatch [their flocks]; and our father is an old man.'" (Al-Qasas: 23). That is to say, because of his old age, their father has become too delicate and weak to water the flock. As a result, his two daughters had to bear the burden of doing so as part of their duty towards their father. So, being a strong man, Musa helped them by removing a big rock that was on the well, allowing them to water the flock and go back to their father quickly.
When the two daughter returned to their father, they told him what happened with them. So, "one of the women said, 'O my father, hire him. Indeed, the best one you can hire is the strong and the trustworthy.'"  (Al-Qasas: 26). This means, we need him to do the work and take care of the flock.
Indeed, being physically fit is an important factor for accomplishing success. This was also emphasised in another place in the holy Quran through the story of Dhul Qarnain when he helped those who sought out his assistance in building a dam to separate them from the corruptors. Dhul Qarnain told them, "but assist me with strength; I will make between you and them a dam."  (Al-Kahaf: 95).
This means, help me with the strength of your bodies. As such, with the joint power of their bodies, they could build the dam in a faster pace. Truly, physical strength is a prerequisite for man to acquire agility, stamina and positivity in order to populate the earth and build civilisations.
On the same account, one of the attributes that Allah, the Most Exalted, praised about Taloot (Saul) in the holy Quran was the physical fitness that Allah has granted to him. The Almighty says, "and has increased him abundantly in knowledge and stature." (Al-Baqara: 247). So, his healthy body was one key factor to his success and excellence.
O Worshipers, 
It is good to know that one way to maintain physical fitness is by exercising. Physical activities are conducive to make the person energetic and vigorous. In this respect, there are many kinds of sports that one can practice, walking being the easiest and most important one of them. It suits people from all age groups. The Messenger of Allah pbuh used to have a good brisk walk whenever he wanted to go somewhere. And when he walked, he lifted his legs with vigour, as if he were descending to a low-lying place. That is to say: he was active, fast and energetic when walking.
In fact, jogging is recommended by physicians as it helps in protecting the body from several illnesses. For example, it improves blood circulation to all parts of the body, generating thereby the energy necessary for the body to operate. Thus, it is recommended for one to be persistent in practicing this type of exercise. One thing that can help this be achieved is when it is done in groups. This is because friends will encourage each other to walk regularly.
An evidence on this is that the Prophet pbuh used to walk with his companions as well as with his wives, may Allah be pleased with them.
Another exercise that is good for health is running, one that the Prophet pbuh used to give much importance. He pbuh used to run as reported on the authority of Sayeda Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her. It was narrated that she said, "While I was on a journey along with the Messenger of Allah pbuh I had a race with him and I outstripped him on my feet. When I became fleshy, (again) I had a race with him (the Prophet) and he outstripped me. Thereupon, he said, 'This is for that outstripping.'"
O Servants of Allah,
Another type of sport that our Master Muhammad pbuh urged us to practice is shooting. It plays a great role in defending one's land. It was reported in this regard that Uqba Ibn Amer, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "I heard the Messenger of Allah pbuh saying when he was on the pulpit: 'Beware, strength lies in shooting. Beware, strength lies in shooting. Beware, strength lies in shooting."
Indeed, shooting is one of the required skills in national service and it requires physical fitness and strong body. On the same matter, it was narrated that Allah's Messenger pbuh passed by some people practicing archery. He said, "O children of Ishmael! Throw (arrows), for your father was an archer."
Dear Muslims,
Horse riding is also amongst the sports that Islam encouraged for it has abundant physical, mental and psychological benefits for the horse rider. In addition to the great positive impact on the overall posture of the rider, horse riding instils enormous self-esteem and confidence which is beneficial in facing daily challenges. 
The Prophet pbuh used to hold competitions for horse riding as reported by Ibn Umar, may Allah be pleased with him: "The Messenger of Allah pbuh ordered for a horse race." This Hadith confirms the lawfulness of horse racing and that horse riding is a praised sport that helps in achieving one's objectives and is beneficial for the homeland at times of need.
On the same account, horse riding was amongst the sports that Umar Ibn al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, urged people to learn. It was narrated that he said, "Teach your children swimming, archery and horse riding."
With this in mind, we beseech Allah, the Almighty, to grant us physical fitness, healthy bodies and guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
As to what follows,
Please know, O Worshipers, that the UAE government has given a great care for sports and physical activities. To this effect, it established sport clubs, gyms and sport fields. Those were furnished with the best facilities and equipment, and are available for people from all walks of life to use and benefit from them.
Furthermore, as part of the care given to sports, the UAE organises sport-related festivals and shows and holds national and international competitions. Walking tracks at the side streets and around parks were also arranged for people to walk, the aim being to help preserve a healthy lifestyle, improve fitness and build strong, more enduring, and energetic bodies. Ultimately, this should boost stamina and productivity of individuals.
You are, therefore, urged to encourage your little ones to exercise, for people with sound and healthy bodies are fit to serve themselves, their families and their homeland. They will also be closer to realise their ambitions and achieve success.
This also calls us to be persistent on practicing physical activities and encourage our children to do so.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the Almighty says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [ Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [ Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Lord, may we ask you to admit us, our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us as well as all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of the temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
 
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45)
---------------
Official Notification from Awqaf
To be delivered after Friday prayer 17/02/2017
Dear Muslims,
Awqaf would like to invite all those who wish to perform Hajj rites this year to register in the Hajj electronic registration system. To register, please visit one of Awqaf's accredited centres, carrying your ID card and passport. Accredited centres are mentioned below:


Awqaf's branches across the UAE.


Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai, and its two branches.


Islamic Affairs Department and its branches in Sharjah.


Tas'heel service centres of the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation.


The Integrated Government Services Centres "Tamm" in the Western Region. 
Registration starts on Sunday, 12/3/2017 and closes by 13/4/2017.
That is said, we beseech Allah to confer His blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.


 













