addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. To Him belongs the Best Names and He has encompassed all things in knowledge. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. To Him belongs all the Dominion and all the praises are due to Him. He is over all things competent. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted, in line with His orders: "O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from both of them many men and women. And fear Allah , through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer." (An-Nisaa: 1).
O Worshipers,
Allah, the Most Exalted says, "and to Allah belong the best names, so invoke Him by them." (Al-Aaraf: 180).  Of the names that Allah, the Most Exalted, has honoured Himself with is "The Observer", which was mentioned in many places in the holy Quran. For instance, the Exalted in Might says, "and ever is Allah, over all things, an Observer." (Al-Ahzab: 52).
That means He observes all of our actions and affairs, both that we keep in private and those we do in open. This is commensurate with what Allah, the Almighty says, "or do they think that We hear not their secrets and their private conversations? Yes, [We do], and Our messengers are with them recording." (Az-Zukhruf: 80).
 
No wonder that He hears their secrets and their private conversations, for He is, over all things, Witness. Thus, whoever talks, Allah, the Al-Knowing, shall hear his words. Yet, whoever remain silent, Allah, the Most Exalted, shall know what they are thinking, and those who keep secrets, Allah will know what they hide.
To emphasise this fact, Allah, the Most High, says, "have you not considered that Allah knows what is in the heavens and what is on the earth? There is in no private conversation three but that He is the fourth of them, nor are there five but that He is the sixth of them - and no less than that and no more except that He is with them [in knowledge] wherever they are. Then He will inform them of what they did, on the Day of Resurrection. Indeed Allah is, of all things, Knowing." (Al-Mujadila: 7).
Indeed, by no means could anything in the heavens nor on the earth be hidden from Allah, the All-Knowing. He says, "Allah knows what every female carries and what the wombs lose [prematurely] or exceed. And everything with Him is by due measure. [He is] Knower of the unseen and the witnessed, the Grand, the Exalted. It is the same [to Him] concerning you whether one conceals [his] speech or one publicizes it and whether one is hidden by night or conspicuous [among others] by day." (Ar-Raad: 8-10).  
That is to say: Allah sees whatever is covered under the darkness of the night and all that is visible under the bright light of the day. Both are the same to His all-encompassing knowledge.
On another level, being mindful of Allah, the Almighty, is one of the best acts of worship to which a lofty status is attributed. Observing Allah, the Almighty, means that one should remember Allah at all times and know that He is watching over us always. In an indication of the great status of fearing Allah, the Messenger of Allah pbuh supplicated to His Lord saying, "O Allah, cause me to fear You in the unseen and in the witnessed."
This means, fear Allah even if you do things that are unseen by and unknown to people. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "indeed, those who fear their Lord unseen will have forgiveness and great reward." (Al-Mulk: 12). Moreover, the Prophet pbuh asked Allah to guide him for obedience in the witnessed, which means to be mindful of Allah in matter that people can see with their eyes.
O Believers,
This calls us to ask about how we can achieve the status of being conscious of Allah, the Almighty, in our inwardly and outwardly daily life matters. The answer is that observing Allah means one should trust that Allah, the Most Sublime, is watching over them, close to them and knows what they declare and that which they hide as secret.
One of the righteous ancestors said in this regard, "When you do something, remember that Allah sees you, and when you speak, remember that Allah hears you, and when you are silent, remember Allah's knowledge of your inner (thoughts, feelings and being)."
Thus, being heedful of Allah, the Almighty, will, definitely, urge us to seek perfection in all our acts of worship and be devoted to perform them in accordance to what He has prescribed for us. As a result, the believer will, by Allah's grace, attain the state of Ihsan (i.e. perfection or Benevolence). On this account, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Ihsan is to worship Allah as if you see Him, and if you do not achieve this state of devotion, then (take it for granted that) Allah sees you."
In like manner, one should also be sincere to and conscious of Allah in all other worldly actions and attitudes.  
Amongst the other great merits of being conscious of Allah is that being so is conducive to protect Muslims from their evil tendencies and inner whims. In return, by Allah's favour, good deeds will be written in their accounts and they will see their status raised by degrees. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "The angels said, 'O Lord!  That servant of yours intends to do an evil deed,' though Allah, the Most Exalted, knows better. Allah says, '(O Angels) watch over him; if he does it, then write it as it is, but if he refrains from doing it, then write it as a good deed (in his account) for he refrained from doing it for My Sake." That means, out of fear of Allah, the servant's record with be adorned with good deeds.
It is, then, a great success for those who fear their Lord and attain the great reward that Allah promises when he says, "but as for he who feared the position of his Lord and prevented the soul from [unlawful] inclination, then indeed, Paradise will be [his] refuge." (An-Naziaat: 40-41).
In interpretation of this Aya, scholars said, "It is about the man who intends to do a sinful deed, then he remembers the position of his Lord at the Day of Resurrection, so he declines from doing it."
On the same matter, a poet said what it means: "If one day you were all alone, then you should not say 'I'm alone', but should rather say, 'there is an Observer over me'."  
Furthermore, those who believe that Allah, the Most Exalted, is watching over them, will definitely be wide aware that the Almighty hears what they say and sees where they are. They will reflect on and understand Allah's saying, "and that Allah has encompassed all things in knowledge." (At-Talaq: 12). As a result, they will observe Allah, the Almighty, in their dealings with others. As such, they will maintain their rights, respect their status, appreciate their good deeds and forgive their flaws.
Being conscious of Allah is also an impetus for every individual to perform their work in the perfect manner, show agility in doing it and best use their time in all that may benefit them. Truly, time is a trust and all human beings will be accountable towards Allah for how they used it on the Day of Judgment.
O Servants of Allah,
As we have seen, believing in that Allah, the Most High, is ever Observer over us has a great positive impacts on individuals as well as the community in general. It contributes to building a productive, distinguished, giving and honourable society where honesty and integrity will mark dealings amongst its members. They will also fulfil their promises and trust each other. As a result, they will cherish kindness amongst themselves in this world, their hearts will draw closer to one another, and ultimately, they will win Allah's satisfaction and be admitted to His Paradise in the Hereafter as their Lord promised them. The Most Exalted says, "but for he who has feared the position of his Lord are two gardens." (Ar-Rahman: 46).
 
With this in mind, we seek Allah's favour to make us amongst those who are mindful of Him in secret and in the open. May Allah, the Lord of the Worlds forgive us our past and future sins.
O Allah, we beseech You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
As to what follows,
Please know, dear Worshipers, that being mindful of Allah, the Almighty, can be achieved by obeying Him, adhering to His orders and avoiding all that He prohibited us to do. This is a quality that all of us, younger and older, need to embrace and apply in every aspect of our life.
Our Master Muhammad pbuh advised all of Muslims to be conscious of Allah at all times and in all circumstances. He said, "Fear Allah wherever you are, do good deeds after doing bad ones, for the former will wipe out the latter, and treat one another in kindness."
You are, therefore, urged to promote your self-awareness of Allah's instructions and that he is observing you and thereby adhere to His commandments in your own affairs and in your society. You should also nurture the consciousness of Allah in the minds and hearts of your sons and daughters.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Lord, we seek Your grace to make amongst those who are mindful of You as if they were seeing You. O Allah, please help us to be obedient to Your ordains and bless us with the company of Your Prophet pbuh on the Day of Judgment.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. 
 
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
-------
Official Announcement from Awqaf 
(Limited for Abu Dhabi mosques)
To be delivered after Friday prayer 24/02/2017
 
The Abu Dhabi Education Council would like to invite parents who wish to enrol their children across the public kindergartens and schools operating under the council to visit their preferred school, each in their area, to complete the registration procedures. Registration can also be done through the council's website. This is to ensure registration and all related procedures are done within the announced period which ends on 23/3/2017.
That is said, we beseech Allah to confer His blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
 
 













