addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















HE Sheikh Abdullah Bin Bayyah, President of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies, called for forming alliances and strengthening relationships amongst all countries, societies, cultures and individuals around the world, the aim being to cleanse hearts and correct misconceptions. This should ultimately lead to clarify all that may seem to be problematic in the current Islamic discourse, which results from the illogic and unjustifiable practices that are inconsistent with the religion and are being practiced by either ignorant groups or by extremists dressed in the cloak of Islam, Bin Bayyah added.
Bayyah's statements came while presiding the closing session of the fourth meeting of the forum's board of trustees held yesterday in Abu Dhabi in presence of a host of religious and intellectual leaders from the Islamic world.
In his statement, Bin Bayyah unveiled what he called preliminary frameworks about the topics to be under focus during the fourth Forum, which is scheduled to be held during the coming autumn, considering that priorities of the current phase necessitate attributing a special focus on the youths and their role in shaping the future. Emphasis should also be placed on exploring possibilities of populating the Earth based on such values as goodness, beauty and happiness rather than engaging in violence, bigotry and wars that only destroys mankind and leads to annihilation, he added. 
Concerning the second point of focus for the coming forum, Bin Bayyah said it will be given to foreign affairs, clarifying that the forum has succeeded in forming alliances and friendships with the representatives of the all religions as well as elite intellectuals from all realms of culture from around the world.
Bin Bayyah further stressed that the forum plans for conducting and international event in cooperation with the Ministry of Islamic Affairs in Morocco. Work is undergoing to finalise its activities and prepare for it, he added.
"The forum aims to convey the message of Islam and its tolerant principles to the whole world through multiple channels. Some of these channels rely upon scientific research and sound religious texts, and others are based on delivering the message through international conferences and symposiums throughout the world on basis of common humanitarian goals," Bin Bayyah pointed out in a press briefing concluding the meeting of the board of trustees, held yesterday at St. Regis hotel Abu Dhabi, highlighting his participations in "Davos Forum", which gathered world's foremost political, business and other leaders of society.  
Elaborating on the matter, Bin Bayyah said, "In the past few years, we have participated in the Davos forum. This came as a result to the forum's organisers seeing the significance of inviting the participation of such active religious leaders who possess the ability to conduct research and have the drive and influence to make positive changes. As such, we were invited over the past years to participate in the forum, something which we consider as beneficial. One of the positive outcomes of such participations was the call for holding a symposium on peace, which is being arranged currently by Pastor Robert Pope. We are hopeful that it will soon bear fruits that will benefit people from all sects and creeds."
Other participations in the global arena highlighted by Bin Bayyah was his participation in the Washington conference at the invitation of the US Congress. Representatives of all the major political, intellectual and cultural currents from around the world were brought together in the conference.  
Amongst the topics discussed at the conference, Bin Bayyah underlined his call on the convening representatives to "study the symptoms and we study the disease." That is: they focus their studies and analysis on the actions of some of the extremist groups rather than the root causes of hatred and bigotry, he clarified.
"We invited them to cooperate in correct and sincere manner in order to cure the disease using reason and wisdom, following the guidance of virtues and good ethics, which are the common essence of all modern humanity," added he.
While admitting his awareness of the fact that his influence might be limited, Bin Bayyah said, "We made them hear our voices. We have presented to them our most truthful and credible perspective." He then called on all the Arab and Islamic countries to place much emphasis on methodologies of teaching the correct Islam, stressing that it was no more acceptable that the religious discourse be led by those who do not specialise or have sound knowledge in the divine and worldly sciences.
Firmly rooting and correction 
On another level, Bin Bayyah talked about the forum's efforts in renewing the religious discourse on basis of enrooting the culture of peace in Islam and correcting misconceptions, the aim being to restore the humanitarian aspect of our religion and the true and authentic Arab and Islamic character.
On related note, Bin Bayyah unveiled that a document on the youths has been distributed on the members of the board of trustees of the forum. Concerning Syria and Iraq and other areas of tension within the region, Bin Bayyah pointed out that the forum's call is open and directed to all, thus all competent stakeholder are required to take it into consideration. This is because the forum provides the necessary tools and methods, he added, noting that during Davos conference in Washington, he attended a meeting on restoring stability to the Middle East, where the focus point of the meeting was about Syria.
"Although we are not present in the field, yet we are not absent from the scene. Our thoughts can be of use for the youth as well as the elders. Our call for peace is open to all. It springs from the UAE, a nation that embodies what we call for, adopts noble values and promotes the principle of peaceful co-existence between all religions," Bin Bayyah concluded.  
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, the Secretary General of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslims Societies, delivered a speech in which he hailed the role played by the UAE as the "incubator for the project of the forum" in instilling the culture of tolerance, criminalising Takfeer (accusing Muslims of apostasy) and insulting religions, and promoting peace. This is being done thanks to the support from the UAE wise leadership headed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. Credits also go to the direct care given by HH Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, he added.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed keen interest of the forum in continuing to hold workshops related to the Forum's projects, noting that a minimum of three workshops are planned to be conducted in the UAE during the current year. He called upon the members of the board of trustees to continue what he called "brainstorming", the aim being to prepare for the fourth annual forum which will focus on the initiative of the youth ambassadors for promoting peace.
He also called for issuing further publications that are conducive to firmly enroot the culture of peace and correct the concepts that were hijacked by extremists, distorting their religious, cultural and humane meanings and transforming them to radical concepts that spread terrorism and criminal actions under the name of Islam.
Deterioration of the East implies dangerous risks on the West 
Other speakers in the meeting included, Mustafa Ibrahim Cerić, Former Grand Mufti of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who said, "It gives me the honour to be one of the member scholars of this forum. I would like to thank the UAE for allowing me the opportunity to participate in this roundtable discussion about peace. I would also like to extend heartfelt appreciation to the UAE astute leadership and to HH Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International cooperation, for his great interest in and support to the forum."
"Today, we are suffering from a global moral crisis and we are exploring ways that lead us on the path out from it. As far as the forum's efforts are concerned, one should not expect tangible results on ground within a limited period of 3 years. We are developing perspectives which may or may not find acceptance by others. Yet, we believe that those of understanding and wisdom will believe us, while whoever lacks logic would not. We should explore ways of enhancing the trust of Muslims in the East and in the West so as to help them endure such difficult times we are going through, knowingly and unknowingly. For this, we need to possess the information required to face the unknown," added Cerić.
Cerić continued saying, "At the forum for promoting peace in Muslim societies, we adopt the principles of goodness and kindness, which we are in dire need for and we need our youths to preserve them. One of the most important of those principles is: 'Good actions are good even if they come late,' 'knowledge is good,' and 'piety is good.' We must nurture those principles in the community in order to protect the youths from deviating from the good path towards the evil one. We should also highlight the true and correct image of Islam to the Western countries."
Concluding his speech, Cerić warned against the consequences of instability in the Middle East and the dangerous impact of separating the East from the West, noting that both (the East and West) are twins that cannot be separated and none of them can be immune against the strife and struggle that occur in the other's territories. He called upon all countries to work together in order to lay down the foundations of good, underling that the forum has been found at the right time and place and the whole world will be looking out for the fruits it might produce.
The foolish feeds on Islamophobia  
Meanwhile, Mahmoud Abdu al Zubair, Advisor to the President of Mali for Religious Affairs, gave a speech in which he underscored that scholar Abdullah Bin Bayyah has been passionate about spreading peace in the world for many years now.
"Finally, he came to this good land and planted the tree of peace, which blossomed and produced its fruits. Scholars say, 'At the turn of every century there will raise a Mujaddid (scholar) who will renovate the religion.' Indeed, this is what we are witnessing today through this forum, which has become well-known worldwide. Its members have really exerted enormous efforts and versed sound talks addressing the youths, women, men, politicians and all of the other religions. As such, one of the most important outcomes of this forum is the protection of the rights of religious minorities in Islamic countries," al Zubair explained.
He further warned that the practices of the foolish who are dressed in the cloak of Islam are nourishing what is known as Islamophobia, stressing that those do not belong Islam and that the forum calls for achieving peace for all.
Building our Islamic civilisation for the advancement of humanity
For her part, Amani Lopez, member of the forum board of trustees and chairman of the Indonesian Ulama Council in Jakarta, emphasised the revival of the Islamic civilisation through the noble and gracious message of the forum. This is because such message revolves on the goal of spreading peace and correcting misconceptions, she explained, adding that this is being achieved either through publishing books and other printed materials, or introducing new concepts about the existing terminologies.
"The forum brings together all representatives of the Islamic nation, including politicians, scholars and experts from both genders. It further introduces ideas and solutions that can be implemented in any Muslim country around the globe. In this regard, there are tremendous efforts being exerted by the Forum in terms of publications and proposing new ideas," she added, highlighting that the participation of scholars from Asian countries is a clear evidence on the everlasting unity of the Islamic nation, calling on all to work hard in order to activate such unity and rebuild the Islamic civilisation for the best interest of the peoples of the world, Muslims and advancement of humanity.
 













