addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Awqaf is set to launch the online Hajj Registration System under the motto "Bringing Happiness to Hujjaj". Individuals who wish to perform Hajj for this season 1438 AH can register through the system starting from Sunday, 12/3/2017 through 13/4/2017.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Chairman of Awqaf, affirmed Awqaf's keen interest to elevate and develop its services continuously as well as innovate and use smart technology to best serve its mission. This is also conducive to enhance the services it offers to the public, the aim being to touch their hearts with happiness and facilitate their access to the required services, he added, noting that the move is in line with the blessed renaissance witnessed in the UAE in all domains.
Dr al Kaabi further pointed out that registration in the online system and at all the customer service centres is free, adding that the number of the UAE accredited Hajj operators for this year is 144. The UAE pilgrims' quota for this season is 6228, an increase of 1246 compared to last year, he underlined.
Dr al Kaabi highlighted on the occasion the great material and moral support given to Awqaf and the Official Hajj Mission by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. Thanks to their support, he said, the Hajj profession has seen remarkable improvement in addition to the development of the services offered to the public by the official Hajj mission. As a result, the UAE official Hajj mission attained a pioneering status amongst other official missions, many of them are seeking to benefit from its experiences.
Dr al Kaabi then urged all those who wish to perform Hajj to register as quickly as possible so as to obtain the Hajj permit and complete other relevant procedures in timely manner.
Those who wish to register through the accredit Hajj operators will require to carry their ID and passport. Once registered, they will receive SMS guiding them to the next step required in order to ensure being enrolled in the list of Hujjaj for this season.
It is worth mentioning that Awqaf receives and answers the public's enquiries through its website http://awqaf.gov.ae, call centre 0565334933/ 0565334944, or through its application on smartphones and tablets "awqaf uae", as well as via its accounts on social media channels.
On a related note, Awqaf has organised training workshop for the concerned male and female staff at the accredited Hajj operators across the UAE to learn about the online Hajj registration system and how to enter pilgrims' data into it.
 













