addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf announced that the eighth edition of its annual Quran memorisation contest is now open for registration from March 12, 2017. The contest will see the participation of contestants from Awqaf's Quran memorisation centres, sessions in mosques and the officially registered Quran memorisation centres in the UAE, besides inmates belonging to correctional and punitive institutions as well as institutions for people with special needs across the country.
Speaking on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said the organisation of this competition at the level of the UAE comes in framework of its Cabinet-approved strategic plan, the aim being to motivate the generations to memorise and recite the holy Quran and learn its sciences.
Dr al Kaabi underlined that, thanks to Allah and the support from the UAE wise leadership, the UAE Quran memorisation centres have become model educational beacons that are equipped with the latest educational methods, keeping in pace with the overall civilised renaissance in the country.
Dr al Kaabi added that, out of its keen interest to serve people from all walks of life and cultures in the UAE, Awqaf provides a unified, multi-language curriculum for all the Quran memorisation centres.
Concerning the phases of the contest, Dr al Kaabi explained that it consists of four phases: the primary qualifiers (phase one) to continue until 23 March 2017 at Quran memorisation centres and participating facilities. During this phase, specific number of contestants will be nominated. Next comes the pre-qualifiers (phase two) at the level of Awqaf's branches, to kick off on Sunday April 9 and continues through April 20. This will be followed by the finals (phase three), from 8 to 18 May in Abu Dhabi, which will lead to the final day capping the competition. Winners will be honoured in Abu Dhabi during the holy month of Ramadan, Dr al Kaabi further clarified.
Valuable prizes will be awarded to the first, second and third winners in the award's categories, except for the eleventh category which is dedicated for honouring Quran memorisers from the Quranic centres. The winner in the first category, memorising full length of Quran, will win AED 30 thousand, AED 20 thousand will be awarded to the winner in the second category, memorising 20 parts, while the winner in the third category, memorising 10 parts, will be awarded AED 10 thousand.
Regarding the fourth category, memorising 5 parts, the winner will awarded a prize of AED eight thousand, while that of the fifth category, memorising 3 parts, will reach to AED six thousand. Meanwhile, a special category was allocated for youngsters, memorising Amma part (part 30 of the Quran) for which the winner's prize will be AED four thousand. The winner in the seventh category, Quran reciting and Tajweed allocated for citizens aged 50 years and above who are registered at Awqaf's centres, will be awarded AED fifteen thousand.
Furthermore, a prize of AED ten thousand is allocated for the first winner in the eighth category, "National beautiful reciting voices", which is a new category introduced by Awqaf as a step for reciters on the way to become Quran recites worldwide. In the ninth category, the Quranic Stories, the winner will be awarded AED twenty four thousand. Male and female tutors at Awqaf's centres will compete in this category.
Worth mentioning, in order to participate in the award's categories, Emirati contestants are required submit a copy of passport and ID as well as a photo in addition to an application form stamped by their respective centre, branch or institution. Residents, meanwhile, need to submit the same documents and have a valid residence visa. For further information on the subject, applicants can contact Awqaf's call centre on the numbers: 02-6143666/ 0529982398, or via email to quran.centers@awqaf.gov.ae.
 













