addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon,
All praise is due to Allah, the Most Generous, the Bestower of favours and bounties. He guided us to a religion that urges its followers to honour mankind and seek the best interest of the homeland. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He is the Mighty and Generous. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "Indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good." (An-Nahl: 128).
O Worshipers,
Civilised nations and advanced countries attribute enormous care to making the future. From this perspective, all of the Prophets and ancestor scholars and people of wisdom devised plans for the future of their generations. In the process, they sought to learn about and meet their societies' needs.
Through the stories of the Prophets pbut, the holy Quran teaches us to be strategist and planners in our affairs and to seek betterment for the future generations. One good example is the one of the father of Prophets, Ibrahim pbuh, who invocated to his Lord to bless his offspring and homeland with a prosperous and stable future. About him, Allah, the Most High says, "and [mention] when Abraham said, 'My Lord, make this a secure city and provide its people with fruits." (Al-Baqara: 126).
Another example that illustrates this is the one of the Prophet Yusuf pbuh who made best use of the knowledge and wisdom that Allah bestowed upon him to plan for the future of his people. As such, he prepared a future budget, adopting the method of balancing between the present requirements and the future needs. So, he told his people, "you will plant for seven years consecutively; and what you harvest leave in its spikes, except a little from which you will eat." (Yusuf: 47). This way, Yusuf pbuh managed to overcome the hardship and surmount the challenges.       
In like manner, Prophet Zakaria (Zechariah) pbuh was keenly interested in having offspring to transfer his knowledge and wisdom to them. So, he called to his Lord a supplication to grant him his wish. About him, Allah, the Almighty says, "he said, 'My Lord, indeed my bones have weakened, and my head has filled with white, and never have I been in my supplication to You, my Lord, unhappy. And indeed, I fear the successors after me, and my wife has been barren, so give me from Yourself an heir who will inherit me and inherit from the family of Jacob. And make him, my Lord, pleasing [to You]." (Mariam: 4-6).
Furthermore, our Master Muhammad pbuh has set a role model in this regard. He advocated his people to reflect upon the consequences of their actions and plan for the future. For instance, when the noble companion Saad Ibn Abu Waqqas, may Allah be pleased with him, wanted to will all his property (in charity), the Messenger of Allah pbuh advised him not to do so and said, "It is better for you to leave your inheritors wealthy than to leave them poor begging others."
In this example, the Prophet pbuh guided Saad to plan for the future of his offspring so as to leave them a part of his fortune that could help them in managing their life affairs. In view of this, planning for the future of our children, preparing them for higher positions, and motivating them to always aim high are things that are pleasing to Allah, the Most Exalted. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Allah loves high vigour and honourable deeds, and hates trivial pursuits."
More to the point, the Messenger of Allah pbuh taught us to set up high goals and seek every mean to fulfil them. He pbuh said, "So, when you ask Allah (for something), ask for Al-Firdaus (the best and highest part of Paradise)." Following such great teachings, our youths are urged to lay down appropriate plans and set up high objectives seeking to achieve the top status in this world and in the Hereafter.
O Believers,
Undoubtedly, the young generations are the real wealth of any nation. They are the nations' hope for development and prosperity. They bear the trust of shaping the future of their countries, for the progress of the latter is dependent upon the minds of their sons and daughters. In the hands of the youths lies the secret for success and excellence of nations.
Truly, the elevation and advancement of nations are but through qualifying their generations in a manner to prepare them to shoulder the responsibility and understand the challenges. This way, they will continue the process of future building, armed with modern sciences and advanced technology.
Indeed, knowledge is the best reservoir for mankind in their present and future too. It is the essence of people's life and the light that guides on the path towards a bright future. Allah, the Almighty, says, "and is one who was dead and We gave him life and made for him light by which to walk among the people like one who is in darkness, never to emerge therefrom?" (Al-Anaam: 122).
It is with knowledge that nations survive, progress, attain higher status and pioneer in the civilizational race. Unquestionably, the Prophets pbut were never to lead their nations and guide them to the righteous path have they not been blessed by Allah with knowledge and wisdom. An illustration of this can be seen in this Aya about Yusuf pbuh. The Most Sublime says, "and when he (Joseph) reached maturity, We gave him judgment and knowledge. And thus We reward the doers of good." (Yusuf: 22).
In the same regard, Allah, the Almighty, shows us the importance of knowledge and wisdom in the story of Musa pbuh. He says, "and when he attained his full strength and was [mentally] mature, We bestowed upon him judgement and knowledge. And thus do We reward the doers of good." (Al-Qasas: 14). The Almighty also emphasises the great status of knowledge when he speaks about Dawood and Suleiman pbut: "and to each [of them] We gave judgement and knowledge."  (Al-Anbiyaa: 97).
Likewise, in the following Aya, Allah, the Most Exalted, reminds our Master Muhammad pbuh about the favour of knowledge that He endowed upon him. The Almighty says, "and has taught you that which you did not know. And ever has the favour of Allah upon you been great." (An-Nisaa: 113).
Indeed, understanding is a gracious favour that Allah, the Almighty, has granted to His Prophets, Messengers and the righteous people. Thus, those who race to acquire the modern and advanced sciences and knowledge, will, by Allah's grace, attain His great rewards.
Moreover, by so doing, they will be the source of pride and happiness to their nations. This is because with their knowledge they will actively and positively contribute to their countries' prosperity and excellence. They will also spare no efforts in the way of seeking higher education and knowledge, the aim being to ensure a pioneering status for their countries, surmounting in this way all obstacles and seeing in challenges great opportunities to test their capabilities and hone their skills. 
O Servants of Allah,
Knowledge is key to progress and welfare, yet, good ethics are the adornment of knowledge and the essence of human beings. Good character is the shield that protects generations from changing their habits and traditions. Indeed, it is a duty incumbent on the future generations to uphold the tolerant principles of Islam and preserve our authentic traditions, beautiful habits and noble manners. By so doing, they will draw closer to the Messenger of Allah pbuh and win his love. The Prophet pbuh said to his companions, "Shall I tell you which amongst you is most liked to me and will sit closest to me on the Day of Judgment?" they said, "Yes, O Messenger of Allah!" He pbuh said, "The best of you in character."
On another level, by embracing the best of conducts, our young generations will be the best ambassadors for our beloved homeland. This is because they will understand that one's nation is a great trust in their hands, one that they should fulfil, be loyal and dutiful to it, and appreciate its value. This way, they will adhere to the commands of Allah, the Almighty, for He says, "indeed, Allah commands you to render trusts to whom they are due." (An-Nisaa: 58).
Knowing this, it is also good to mention that the responsibility of raising such dutiful and well-mannered generations lies in the hands of both men and women. Each of them exert praiseworthy efforts in this process, be it at home or at school. Their contributions to promoting knowledge and enhancing the well-being of their nation will, by Allah's favour, be greatly rewarded.
With this in mind, we seek Allah's grace to make us amongst those who fulfil their duties towards their homeland, raise its banner high and fulfil its trust.
O Allah, we beseech You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
O Worshipers,
Allah has blessed us in the UAE with wise founding leaders who devoted themselves to fulfil the trust of their country despite of all obstacles and challenges. In their endeavour, they trusted Allah, the Almighty, and relied upon Him, guided in this by His words: "and whoever relies upon Allah - then He is sufficient for him." (At-Talaq: 3). In return of their good intentions and firm determination, Allah, the Most Sublime, granted them success. As such, they did achieve the aspirations of their people and led the nation towards advancement in fast paces. With such gains, they proved that the word "impossible" is only a point of view, transforming, thereby all the challenges in their way into motivations that further strengthened their good will.
Our forefathers took care of the humane culture and laid down the foundations of development and prosperity, fulfilling thereby their duty before they returned to their Creator, blessed with His mercy and accompanied with the prayers of their people who are loyal to their commendable actions and glorious achievements.
In like manner, the nation's martyrs have also fulfilled their duty towards their nation. They sacrificed their pure souls in the way of protecting the glory and dignity of their beloved homeland and in the cause of Allah. Undoubtedly, their sacrifices will be greatly rewarded as promised by Allah, the Almighty: "and those who are killed in the cause of Allah - never will He waste their deeds. He will guide them and amend their condition, and admit them to Paradise, which He has made known to them." (Muhammad: 4-6).   
Truly, the sacrifices of our honourable martyrs have become a source of pride for the younger generations and they set a role model for them in sacrificing all that is precious in the way of preserving the glory of the nation and protecting its achievements and resources.
Moreover, while appreciating the sacrifices of our heroes, we must also pay due respect, honour and gratitude to the sacrifices of their great parents who raised them and nurtured love of the homeland in their heats.
It is, therefore, our duty to nurture in our children's minds and hearts the values of dutifulness and loyalty towards their homeland and teach them to pursue knowledge and embrace the best of manners and the noblest values.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. He pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
 
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we implore to You to beautify us with knowledge and good manners and guide us to the best of speech and deeds. O Lord of the Worlds, please also lighten for us our present and future with all that is righteous.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us. 
 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 













