addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf starts, today, Hajj registration for this year's season 1438 AH. Registration will be open for those who wish to register until Thursday, 13 April 2017. Registration is free of charge via the online Hajj registration system and at the designated registration centres too.
For this purpose, Awqaf assigned 81 centres across the UAE for Hajj registration. Pilgrims wishing to register at those centres need to carry their Emirates identity card and passport. Awqaf pointed out that after initial registration, applicants will receive SMS clarifying the procedures and required documents. 
On this occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, urged the applicants to complete their registration within the deadline so as to obtain the Hajj permit and continue with the registration process. He noted that Awqaf adopted an early registration system this year, the aim being to enable Hajj operators to finalise contracts for pilgrims' accommodation and complete other relevant preparations. 
Dr al Kaabi further explained that Awqaf allocated 31 centres for Hajj registration in Abu Dhabi, including its head office and Tas'heel service centres. Of those, 13 centres were designated in Abu Dhabi and its neighbourhoods, 10 in Al Ain and its districts, and 8 centres to serve all of the cities in the Western Region.
Concerning Dubai, Awqaf allocated 18 centres for Hajj registration, including its two branches and the head office of the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department, in addition to Tas'heel centres in the emirate. In Sharjah, 18 centres were assigned, including Awqaf's branch and the Islamic Affairs and Endowment Department and its branches in the emirate. Moreover, 6 centres were allocated to provide Hajj registration services in Khor Fakkan and the Eastern Region.
Furthermore, 4 centres were designated for this purpose in Ajman and its localities, including Awqaf's branch, two centres assigned to serve Umm Al Quwain, 4 centres to cover Ras Al Khaimah and its districts as well as four centres to serve Fujairah and its neighbourhoods.
 













