addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















As soon as registration opened for this year's Hajj season 1438 AH, the first day saw the registration of as many as 2000 pilgrims. Of the total number of applications, 30 percent were for residents. Registration through the newly launched online registration system and at the registration centres resulted in remarkable benefits, controlling the rise in the prices of Hajj packages and motivating competition amongst Hajj campaign operators in offering in-kind benefits and competitive prices, aiming to attract more pilgrims.
Packages ranged between AED 14500 for bookings at 3 and 4 star hotels, and AED 30000 for 5-star hotels, among other benefits.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said the entity strives to control the Hajj packages prices, the aim being to allow the opportunity for pilgrims to perform Hajj at convenient and affordable costs.
Dr al Kaabi further underlined that the number of accredited Hajj operators for this year is 144 that would serve the entire UAE pilgrims community totalling at 6228, an increase of 1246 compared to the previous season. He hailed, on the occasion, the great material and moral support to Awqaf and the UAE Official Hajj Mission by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Force, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Thanks to their support, the Hajj line of work has seen significant improvement in addition to the development of the services offered to pilgrims by the official Hajj mission. As a result, the UAE official Hajj mission has become a role model for other missions that are seeking to benefit from its experiences, added Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi then urged the applicants to complete their registration within the deadline so as to obtain the Hajj permit and further proceed with the registration process, noting that Awqaf adopted an early registration system this year, the aim being to enable Hajj operators to finalise contracts for pilgrims' accommodation and complete other relevant preparations.
Concerning the online Hajj registration system, Dr al Kaabi stressed that it is one of Awqaf's initiatives that is aimed to make best use of the modern technology in serving the public, calling upon all those who wish to perform Hajj this year to register as quickly as possible.
Earlier, Awqaf assigned 81 centres across the UAE for Hajj registration. Applicants can register with their ID card and passport. Awqaf explained to the public that after the initial registration, applicants will receive SMS explaining to them the next required step and procedures.
31 centres for Hajj registration were allocated in Abu Dhabi, including Awqaf's head office and "Tas'heel" service centres. Of those, 13 centres were designated in Abu Dhabi and its neighbourhoods, 10 in Al Ain and its districts, and 8 centres to serve all of the Western Region cities.
In Dubai, Awqaf allocated 18 centres for Hajj registration, including its two branches and the head office of the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department, in addition to "Tas'heel" centres in the emirate. In Sharjah, 18 centres were assigned, including Awqaf's branch and the Islamic Affairs and Endowment Department and its branches in the emirate. Moreover, 6 centres were allocated to provide Hajj registration services in Khor Fakkan and the Eastern Region.
Furthermore, 4 centres were allocated for this purpose in Ajman and its localities, including Awqaf's branch, two centres assigned to serve Umm Al Quwain, 4 centres to cover Ras Al Khaimah and its districts as well as four centres to serve Fujairah and its neighbourhoods.
 













