addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has organised a big ceremony under the motto "Your happiness is our happiness", marking the International Day of Happiness. The celebration involved Awqaf's head office and branches across the UAE, conducting several events that imparted an atmosphere of utmost happiness to the hearts of Awqaf's male and female employees.
The celebration, which was held at the Etihad Towers in Abu Dhabi, opened with the national anthem followed by a recitation of verses from the holy Quran by a female student from one of Awqaf's Quran memorisation centres. After that, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, delivered a speech for in which he hailed the UAE wise leadership's efforts, making the UAE a land of civilisation, harmony, co-existence, peace and tolerance amongst all the constituents of society. 
"What makes us proud as Emiratis is that the UAE has ranked on the top globally in public trust in government. Given the parental relationship between Emiratis and their astute leaders, undoubtedly, the number '1' place will always be granted to our beloved UAE. The government's efforts have resulted in the UAE ranking first amongst Arab countries in the happiness index 2016 and emerging as the number-one country in which young people in the region want to live and cherish a happy life," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Dr al Kaabi, then, paid tribute to the UAE martyrs who sacrificed their souls defending their homeland, giving their people the opportunity to cherish happiness and prosperity. He further extended his sincere greetings to the martyrs' mothers and families who offered their sons in the way of touching the hearts of their leaders and people with happiness.
On the occasion, Dr al Kaabi further addressed Awqaf's male and female employees and commended their efforts as a team, accomplishing great achievements that were worthy of appreciation. As a result, they earned many awards and medals, he added.
"Awqaf's happiness can be achieved when it succeeds in realising the UAE government's vision concerning the happiness index. This is why, Awqaf's strategic objectives included creating smart systems that are aimed at bringing happiness to the community, thus was the 'Giving is happiness' campaign, the Hujjaj happiness centre, Fatwa seekers happiness, and many other similar initiatives," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
Dr al Kaabi then congratulated the staff on the occasion of Awqaf's winning the first place at the level of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries in Mosque Architecture and offering smart and innovative services. Amongst the other achievements highlighted by Dr al Kaabi was winning the Mohammed bin Rashid Government Excellence Award in the category of social services in addition to the Best mGovernment Award at the closing ceremony of the World Government Summit 2016.
He stressed that such achievements at the local, regional and international levels was the fruit of Awqaf's male and female employees' efforts and their keen interest in further elevating the status of Awqaf and implement its plans and programmes that are aimed at bringing happiness to the society.
On the occasion, Dr al Kaabi further reaffirmed that at the top of Awqaf higher management's priorities was to provide its employees with a positive and transparent work environment that is conducive to touch their hearts with happiness, calling on all the employees to positively interact with the Awqaf's initiatives and come out with positive proposals in order to further boost happiness at work and create smart systems for the happiness of the community.
Concluding his speech, Dr al Kaabi renewed the pledge of loyalty to the UAE wise leadership and commitment to exert the possible best efforts to serve our beloved nation, paying homage to the founder of the UAE, late Sheikh Zayed and other founding fathers.
For her part, Ms. Mariam Rashid al Breiki, CEO of Happiness at Awqaf, delivered a speech in which she praised the utmost care given by the UAE government to making the citizens at the core of its policies and plans as well as striving to achieve their happiness, stability and welfare. As a result, she said, the world's institutions concerned with human development testified that Emiratis are the happiest people in the world.
Al Breiki continued saying, "The UAE government has adopted 'happiness' as an approach and human value, offering it to Emiratis from all walks of life. From this perspective, through the Happiness and positivity Council, Awqaf launched a number of initiatives, events, workshops and contests that will take place throughout the year," adding that the next phase requires unwavering endeavour and fruitful cooperation, the aim being to firmly establish and develop the culture of happiness and stimulate positive energy at the work place.
Meanwhile, the ceremony also brought to stage, Omar al Derei, Director of the Official Fatwa Centre who addressed the audience saying, "The concept of 'Giving is happiness' is a culture that was laid down by the founding leader late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul in peace. It was him who instilled the principle of benevolence in the UAE. He set a role model in giving for the good of people and touching their hearts with happiness. According to him, resources were but a means for achieving one utmost goal, namely happiness. His judicious vision is still forming the compass that guides the UAE in its initiatives and achievements. This is because happiness is like the sun that provide lively warmth to human beings, making them blossom with energy and shine with good spirit."
She concluded by stressing that happiness in its essence is the faith in Allah, the Almighty, which imparts positive inner feelings, optimism and everlasting tranquillity to mankind.
On another level, the event saw the honouring of winners of the reading contest, followed by a draw offering 20 cash prizes in the form of purchase coupons, the aim being to bring joy and happiness to the families.
Worth mentioning, the celebration was attended by all the executive directors, department managers, male and female employees of Awqaf in Abu Dhabi.
 













