addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Sheikha Fatima Bint Zayed Bin Saqr Al Nahyan, wife of HH the Ruler of Ajman, attended the closing ceremony of the first edition of the Al Talla Quran Award organised by Hajir Quran memorisation centre, which is affiliated to Awqaf's branch in Ajman.
Commenting on the occasion, Sheikha Fatima expressed her appreciation of the Al Talla Holy Quran Memorisation Award which, she said, represented the care given by Awqaf to enhancing the mission of the Quranic centres across the UAE, the aim being to contribute to encouraging the younger generations and their parents to memorise the Book of Allah and compete in its recitation and Tajweed.
Sheikha Fatima further hailed the care and support to Awqaf by the UAE wise leadership headed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Ruler of Ajman, praying to Allah, the Most Exalted to protect our beloved UAE and continue blessing it with stability.
The ceremony brought to stage also Afraa al Ketbi, Director of the Hajir Centre, who delivered a speech on behalf of Awqaf in which she extended thanks to HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ajman and his wife Sheikh Fatima for their interest in providing care for the houses of Allah and Quran memorisation centres in Ajman.
Al Ketbi also highlighted the support given to Quranic centres in the UAE by its astute leadership as well as members of the community. This, she added, reflected in further development and prosperity for such institutions.
Concerning the Award, Al Ketbi pointed out that it was established with the aim of elevating the level of the holy Quran memorisers, motivating members of the community to compete in Quran memorisation and recitation, supporting and honouring the outstanding amongst them. She further underlined that contestants in the award competed in six categories, including Quran Buds (youngsters), higher age group and housewives in addition to people with special needs.
Concluding her speech, Al Ketbi thanked Her Highness Sheikha Fatima for honouring the award ceremony with her attendance, appreciating as well the contributions of Mr. Yusuf Sultan al Ajmani and Mr. Ahmed Saif al Muhairi to sponsoring the first edition of the award.
In the ceremony, a video-taped recitations of the winners were presented. Contestant Azza al Marzouqi attracted attention of the audience as she was able to memorise two parts of the holy Quran within just two months in spite of her sight impairment.
Moreover, as part of the ceremony, Sheikh Fatima listened to recitations of verses from the holy Quran by a number of female memoriser.
Concluding her visit, Sheikh Fatima expressed her satisfaction and appreciation of the efforts exerted by the Award's organising committees and Jury, thanking all those who supported the award. She also commended on the efforts by the founder of the Hajir centre and the award, Mr. Yusuf al Ajmani. She, then, honoured the winners of in the contest as well as its sponsors.
 













