addthis_pub="newawqaf";















It was late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who instilled the culture of endowment in the UAE with sincerity and forbearance, said Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman. He did so by setting a role model in Waqf establishment and investment in such projects that serve the best interest of the public as creating streams, digging wells, paving roads to make travel easier for people and allocating returns of some properties and projects for helping the needy segments in the community. Such Waqf epics guided Emiratis on the way of giving, Dr al Kaabi added, noting that Sheikh Zayed had also encouraged merchants to contribute to many types of endowment projects.
Dr al Kaabi's statements came on the sidelines of the Forum for GCC Endowments held in Abu Dhabi.
"Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, has laid down the foundations for endowments and philanthropic and humanitarian activities in the UAE, extending the beams of good for humanity to all four corners of the world. Such approach was based upon the noble principles of Islam, his Arabian inherent generosity and true tolerant character," Dr al Kaabi said, pointing out that Sheikh Zayed's philanthropic and humanitarian practice not only became an inherent approach in the UAE, but also served the interest of every member of the Emirati community. As a result of this sincere work, the UAE, he said, has become a symbol for giving worldwide and its people are known for their natural tendency for charitable activities.
Dr al Kaabi further underlined that, since its inception, Awqaf has been guided by the stances and legacy of the late Sheikh Zayed on the path of charitable and humanitarian work, and is still drawing lessons from his gracious approach. This is because Awqaf is keenly interested in continuing the march of good under the UAE wise leadership based on these very noble values, he added.
"Developing Waqf projects and maximising their proceeds in a manner to ensure achieving optimum interests of the community are elements that complement the tenets of benevolence that are well-founded in the UAE," Dr al Kaabi underscored, vowing to exert further efforts in order to sustain the pioneering status of the UAE in the field of humanitarian work on the global arena as well as reaching a helping hand to all those in need worldwide.
Concerning the importance of the forum, Dr al Kaabi highlighted that the periodic GCC Waqf meeting hosted by the UAE is an extension to the cooperation amongst the brotherly people in the GCC countries in the field of endowments. Undoubtedly, exchange of views and ideas shall reflect positively on the peoples of the Gulf countries, he concluded. 
The GCC Forum for Endowment, held in Abu Dhabi, kicked off with an opening speech delivered by Khalid Mohammed Saif al Neyadi, Executive Director for Waqf sector at Awqaf, in which he highlighted the deep and strong relationship amongst the GCC states and the unity of their stances and determination, describing the forum as an ancillary step that is aimed at promoting the constants of the GCC joint action.
"Waqf projects in the UAE are being executed in accordance with a well thought out plans and strategies, the aim being to achieve the ideal management of Waqf projects that is conducive to ensure adhering to the donor's wish, maximising returns and meeting the requirements of the less fortunate segment of the community," al Neyadi said, highlighting the diversity of Waqf disbursement channels in the UAE, which helped in expanding the volume of spending and establishing the community partnerships.
"The Waqf and humanitarian activities in the UAE are based upon Islam's principles and inspired by the road map created by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. He established various endowment projects, including properties, charitable centres, mosques and roads all over the UAE, benefiting people regardless of race, religion or colour," al Neyadi pointed out, adding that Sheikh Zayed's humanitarian acts targeted not only human beings, but also extended to birds and animals. As such, he donated funds, sponsored programmes and supported international institutions and organisations to serve these creatures, he explained.
Al Neyadi concluded by reiterating that the UAE people's love of giving is driven by the noble values of Islam and authentic culture inherited generation after generation, noting that Awqaf continuously receives Waqf donations from Emirati philanthropists. 
During the meeting, the convening members discussed a working paper about the history of laws and regulations governing Waqf in the UAE and its disbursement in accordance with the endowers' wishes and Fiqh opinion. The paper also introduced a draft of a new Waqf law that is set to be issued in the near future covering all rules, legal and Sharia laws regulating endowment affairs in the UAE. It further addressed the Awqaf's mission, vision and strategic goals for 2017-2021.
On another level, the symposium further shed light on the fourth generation of government excellence system introduced by Sheikh Khalifa Government Excellence Programme, under the motto "Shaping the Future", which is consistent with the UAE Vision 2021 that is aimed at placing the UAE amongst the world's best countries by 2021. In this regard, the convention discussed a working paper that addressed the key objective of the UAE government excellence system, which focuses on achieving the welfare and well-being of Emiratis and meeting the requirements and aspirations of the society members by offering them the highest and most effective services. Ultimately, this will boost the UAE's competitiveness and pioneering amongst the world's countries.
 













