addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is in the earth celebrate His praises. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He is the Most Glorious, the Most Holy and the Lord of the angels and the spirit. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best amongst those who exalted Allah, remembered His name, and glorified Him. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al-Baqara: 281).
O Worshipers,
The universe around us, the sky which is raised high, the planets that are in constant motion in their orbits, the diversity of the creatures, and the colossal earth that is made an expanse to us, are all manifestations on the glory of Allah, the Almighty. Indeed, the limits of His glory only Him, the Most Exalted, can appraise. The Most Great says, "they have not appraised Allah with true appraisal, while the earth entirely will be [within] His grip on the Day of Resurrection, and the heavens will be folded in His right hand. Exalted is He and high above what they associate with Him." (Az-Zumar: 67).
Truly, Allah is the Most Glorious and all His creation exalt Him and praise His blessings, for He says, "and there is not a thing except that it exalts [Allah] by His praise, but you do not understand their [way of] exalting. Indeed, He is ever Forbearing and Forgiving." (Al-Israa: 44).
Angels in the heavens are amongst those who celebrate Allah's praise. The Most High describes them saying, "those [angels] who carry the Throne and those around it exalt [Allah] with praise of their Lord and believe in Him." (Ghafir: 7). Even the thunder in the sky glorifies Allah, as evidenced in this Aya, "and the thunder exalts [Allah] with praise of Him - and the angels [as well] from fear of Him." (Ar-Raad: 13).
Moreover, all those on the earth, including the mountains and birds also exalt and prostrate to His glory. The Almighty says, "do you not see that Allah is exalted by whomever is within the heavens and the earth and [by] the birds with wings spread [in flight]? Each [of them] has known his [means of] prayer and exalting [Him]." (An-Noor: 41). Exalting (Tasbeeh) Allah, the Beneficent, means saying "Subhan Allah" (Exalted is Allah). That is to say, glorifying Allah and testifying that He is free of imperfections.
O You who Glorifies Allah,
Please know that Tasbeeh was part of the traditions of all the Prophets and the righteous ancestors. For instance, the Prophet Dawood (David) pbuh used to glorify Allah, the Almighty, and contemplate upon His blessings.  When Dawood recited his scripture and glorified Allah, the mountains joined him in praise and the birds rallied around him in different languages, adhering to the orders of their Magnificent Lord: "O mountains, repeat [Our] praises with him, and the birds [as well]." (Sabaa: 10).  
In like manner, Prophet Zakaria pbuh enjoined his people to celebrate the praises of Allah. About him, Allah the Most Exalted says, "so he came out to his people from the prayer chamber and signalled to them to exalt [Allah] in the morning and afternoon." (Mariam: 11).
 
Our Master Muhammad pbuh also used to praise Allah frequently, saying, "Glory be to Allah and All Praise is due to Him." In this regard, it was narrated that Rabeia Ibn Kaab, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "I used to serve the Messenger of Allah pbuh until he established Isha prayer then I used to spend the night at his door. As he entered to his room, I used to hear him saying, 'Glory be to Allah, Glory be Allah, Glory be to Allah and all praise is due to Him."
Thus, remembering Allah, the Most Exalted, and glorifying Him frequently is part of the guidance of the Messenger of Allah pbuh and we should take his example. Moreover, Allah, the Almighty, also ordered the believers to remember and exalt Him much, for He says, "O you who have believed, remember Allah with much remembrance. And exalt Him morning and afternoon." (Al-Ahzab: 41-42).
That is to say, you should remember Allah and exalt Him in the day and in the night, in the sea and on land, in private and in the public, and in all circumstances.
Indeed, when one begins his day with the remembrance of Allah, the Most Sublime, He will expand their chests and impart tranquillity to their hearts. The Most Compassionate says, "unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah hearts are assured." (Ar-Raad: 28).
Tasbeeh is also conducive to comfort the soul and increases forbearance. As a result, this will be reflected positively on one's attitude towards others. So, he would show kindness and patience while dealing with others, respect their rights, engage in acts of obedience and give in charity, seeking the rewards of Allah and His satisfaction. In this sense, one would praise the blessings and favours of his Lord in the morning and in the evening, in line with Allah's commands: "so exalted is Allah when you reach the evening and when you reach the morning." (Ar-Room: 17).
 
In this Aya, Allah, the Almighty urges the believers to glorify Him and praise His bounties at the beginning of the day and before its end.
O Servants of Allah,
This calls us to ask about the merits of Tasbeeh. Glorifying Allah, the Almighty has many great merits and holds a noble status. The words of Tasbeeh are the dearest to Allah, the Most Exalted. It was narrated in this regard, that Abu Dharr Al Ghifari, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "I asked the Messenger of Allah, 'Which speech is most beloved to Allah [the Mighty and Sublime]?' So he pbuh said: 'That which Allah selected for His angels (to say): Glory be to Allah, and all praise is due to Him; Glory be to Allah, and all praise is due to Him. Recite them three times.'"
Amongst the other virtues of Tasbeeh is that it increases one's record of good deeds and wipes away bad ones. An illustration of this can be seen in the following Hadith.
It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah said to those sitting with him, "Is any one amongst you incapable of attaining a thousand good deeds?" So one of the people in the assembly asked, "How can one of us earn a thousand deeds?" The Prophet pbuh said, "Recite a hundred Tasbeeh. Whoever recites them, a thousand good deeds will be written for him and a thousand bad deeds will be wiped away from him."
In the same regard, the Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever says, 'Glory be to Allah and all praise is due to Him' one hundred times in a day, he will be forgiven his sins even if these were as plentiful as the foam of the sea."
Indeed, with the glorification of Allah, the Almighty, one's scale of good deeds grows heavier and they will, by Allah's favour, be amongst the winners. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "Whoever says in the morning and in the evening 'Glory is to Allah and all praise is due to Him (Subḥān Allāh, wa biḥamdih)' a hundred times, none shall bring better than him on the Day of Judgment except one who did the same as him, or increased upon it."
Furthermore, amongst the greatest virtues of Tasbeeh is that it is a cause for making things easier and elevating distress. A good example on this is the story of Allah's Apostle Yunus pbuh when he was swallowed by a whale. In such a desperate situation, Prophet Yunus turned to Allah exalting and invocating Him. About him, Allah, the Beneficent, says, "and he called out within the darknesses, 'There is no deity except You; exalted are You. Indeed, I have been of the wrongdoers." (Al-Anbiyaa: 87). Thus, Allah responded to his calls and engulfed him with His care. The Most Merciful says, "so We responded to him and saved him from the distress. And thus do We save the believers." (Al-Anbiyaa: 88).
More to the point, when Tasbeeh is recited along with invocations, the reciter's supplications are more likely to be answered by Allah, the Almighty. This was emphasised by our Master Muhammad pbuh when he was once asked about the invocation that would answered by Allah. He pbuh said, "The supplication of Dhun-Noon (Prophet Yunus) when he supplicated, while in the belly of the whale. He recited: 'There is none worthy of worship except You, Glory to You, Indeed, I have been of the transgressors.' So indeed, no Muslim ever prays to his Lord with these words for anything, but He will answer his prayer." 
Bearing this in mind, let supplicate to Allah, the Almighty, to make us amongst those who exalt Him and celebrate His remembrance, appraise Him with true appraise and seek His favours.
May Allah guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon,
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Sublime.
O Worshipers,
The Messenger of Allah said, "There are two expressions which are very easy for the tongue to say, but they are very heavy in the balance (of good deeds) and are very dear to The Beneficent (Allah). These are, 'Glory is to Allah and all praise is due to Him, Glory is to Allah the Most Great'." 
The meaning of those two expressions was mentioned in holy Quran as part of the supplications of the people of Paradise. About them, Allah, the Almighty says, "their call therein will be, 'Exalted are You, O Allah,' and their greeting therein will be, 'Peace'." (Yunus: 10).
The Prophet pbuh also taught us a comprehensive expression for Tasbeeh. He pbuh said, "Glory is to Allah and I praise Him as many times as the number of His Creation, as befitting to His satisfaction, equal to the weight of His Throne, and the as much as ink that may be used in recording His words."
 
Truly, it is such a gracious favour that the believer can fill their balance with good deeds by exalting Allah. Indeed Allah is, to the people, Kind and Merciful.
Having known the gracious rewards of being diligent in exalting Allah, you are urged, O Worshipers, to make best use your time by glorifying Allah and appreciating His bounties.      
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. He pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek Your grace to make our tongues wet with Your remembrance, our hearts full of Your love and our limbs busy with acts of Your obedience. Indeed, You are the most Merciful of the merciful.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
 
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us. 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
 
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
-----------------------------
Official announcement from Awqaf
To be delivered after Friday prayer 7/04/2017
O Servants of Allah,
The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "I and the one who looks after an orphan will be like this in Paradise," showing his middle and index fingers and separating them. Thus, congratulations to those who provide for orphans and coopearte with the Dar Zayed for Family Care. They will, by Allah's favour, attain such a great reward.
Dar Zayed for Family Care provides distiguished projects for orphans and those who lost their family care.
That is said, we beseech Allah to confer His blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
 
 













