addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf has drafted a Waqf bill of 88 articles distributed in thirteen chapters, covering all matters related to Waqf affairs.
The first chapter of the bill, which includes 4 articles, addresses the general Waqf regulations and meanings of the relevant terms. The articles include definitions of "Charitable Waqf", which comprises endowments that are not dedicated to a disbursement channel or a designated beneficiary, and "Family Waqf" - offspring- in which the endower dedicates Waqf to himself, his family, children, relatives or others. Upon the death of the beneficiaries, this Waqf will be transformed into a charitable one.
Moreover, the bill also defines the "Joint Waqf" as the endowment that is designated for both charity as well as offspring. Definitions further include "Limited period Waqf", which is an endowment that the donor establishes for a specific period of time and does not included mosques or cemeteries. Meanwhile, the bill also differentiated between the "Individual Waqf" which is an endowment that is established by one endower, and the "Group Waqf" being an endowment that is established by a group of donors (two or more).
The second chapter of the bill describes the "Waqf establishment" in terms of types of Waqf, Waqf creation, as well as its terms and regulations. Article number 5 of this chapter defined six types of Waqf, namely: Charitable Waqf, Family Waqf, Joint Waqf, Limited period Waqf, Individual Waqf and Group Waqf.
The chapter also explains the rules and conditions for establishing a Waqf, including the endower's qualifications. The endower must be an adult with free will and should be the absolute owner of the endowment. His/her decision to grant an endowment must be a personal one. i.e. is not imposed on him/her by anyone, the bill stipulated.
Article number seven of the chapter also provides that the endowment can be granted by both Muslims and non-Muslims in accordance with the regulations of Sharia and laws enacted in the UAE.
Meanwhile, article number eight of the bill stipulates that the qualified owner of the Waqf can grant any part of his/her properties as endowment and award its proceeds for charity, his/her offspring or any other beneficiary. It further explains that in case of a terminally ill endower, Waqf can also be stated in the will and designated to the benefit of parties other than the heirs. One can allocate one third of his/her money for Waqf, provided that such one third is calculated at the time of establishing the endowment. In case the amount allocated for Waqf is more than the third of the inheritance, it is up to the heirs to accept or reject establishing the Waqf. If the endower does not have heirs, he/she can grant his/her properties to whoever they wish.  
Furthermore, article number ten of the bill explains that a Waqf can be either non-perishable or for a limited period except for mosques and cemeteries, which should be permanent, noting that the absolute form of the endowment indicates non-perishability.
In the same regard, article 12 provides that if the endowment was established for a limited period and dedicated for the benefit of a charity, then its term should not exceed 50 Hijri years as of the date of the establishment. The reason is that it involves the rights of third parties, the bill explains.
Elaborating on the term of the Waqf, article number 13 stipulates that if a charitable endowment was established as non-perishable, then the ownership of the granted endowment shall no longer pertain to the endower. As such, none shall have the right to sell, grant or inherit the granted endowment, subject to the provisions of article number (47) of this law. Permanent charitable endowment is irrevocable, while Family endowment can be revoked in case the endower is proved to be in need to do so and has stipulated such right upon establishing the endowment.
Article number 17 of the bill provides that a person can allocate any properties legally owned by him/her, be it an estate, transferable property or cash, including stocks, instruments, securities, trade names, intellectual property rights, or the like properties, granted that it can be invested in compliance with Sharia.
On another level, the third chapter of the draft law, addresses "Endowment invalidation tents". Article number 21 defines six situations that leads to invalidating a permanent or limited period endowment, which are: in case the endowment is claimed by a third party before it came into effect; the endower was indebted upon establishing the endowment unless the debtors approves it; the endowment is designated to a beneficiary incompliant to Sharia; if the endower is terminally ill and allocates for Waqf an amount that is more than the third of the inheritance, in which case the endowment shall be invalidated to the extent of the excess amount unless approved by the heirs; if the endower allocates the endowment proceeds to himself/herself with no other beneficiary; and in case of Family Waqf the endowment shall be invalidated if the endower deprived any of his/her offspring from earning some or all of their lawful right.
Chapter 4 of the bill is dedicated to the "Family Waqf to self, offspring or other beneficiaries". It clarifies in article 22 that an endower is permitted to earn the whole or some of the income generated by the Waqf during his/her life, provided that upon one's death, the income will be spent on charity. The endower can also allocate the proceeds of the Waqf to himself/herself as well as to other beneficiaries. Article 23, states that it is permissible for the endower to dedicate the Waqf to his/her children, offspring and grandchildren upon his/her death.
Three requirements to appoint Waqf Executor 
On another level, Chapter Elven of the bill addresses rules related to appointing a "Waqf Executor" where article number 70 lists the three provisions for this purpose. The first of these is that the execution of the Waqf shall be given to the competent authority unless the endower appoints himself/herself as executor, or the executor was appointed by the court.
The second provision states that in case the endower does not appoint an executor, or his/her appointed executor died, or upon the death of the endower before appointing a guardian, or the guardian's death, or in case it was proved that the endowment or the will related to it is under dispute, then the execution of the Waqf shall be appointed to the competent authorities.
On the other hand, the third provision states that if the endower appoints himself/herself as the executor during his/her life, then in case of his/her death, his/her heirs shall notify the court of the their demise within ten days from the date of death and submit all the documents relevant to the endowment to the court.
 













