addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf condemned the bombings that targeted two churches in the brotherly country of Egypt, describing it as a "brutal terrorist" attack that killed innocent souls, offended the sacred places of worship and aggrieved all of the Arab and Islamic countries.
On the occasion, a delegation from Awqaf headed by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, visited the Coptic Church in Abu Dhabi to express condolences and solidarity with the Egyptian people. Dr al Kaabi expressed solidarity of the UAE leadership and people with their brothers in Egypt against such a wicked terrorism.
"We strongly condemn the sinful aggression against the Egyptian churches, worshipers and community that occurred at a time when the Grand Imam of Al Azhar is leading the most important international dialogue amongst religions, the aim being to achieve peace and civilised co-existence between all religions and leaders of religious discourse," said Dr al Kaabi. 
"The whole world now knows the viciousness of such terrorism which violated all limits of humanitarian and religious values. All the Islamic and international communities are against it and against all types of extremism, violence and hatred. Terrorism targets the whole world and is being combatted by all countries of the world because terrorist groups are committing the most heinous organised crimes against humanity, its civilisation and holy places," added Dr al Kaabi. 
"All of Awqaf's leaderships, scholars, Imams and Muftis stand by their brothers in Egypt and Al Azhar Al Sharif. They support religious scholars all over the world in the face of such hostility against humanity and sacred places. For us, churches are spiritual and religious beacons and oases of peace and coexistence that are aimed at bringing happiness to societies. Thus, any attack against churches is considered as one against mosques and other houses of worship in the Islamic countries as well as around the world," Dr al Kaabi further underlined.
Dr al Kaabi concluded by praying to Allah to protect the brotherly Egyptian leadership and people from all adversities and to disgrace the evil attacks against Egypt's churches, values and people.
 













