addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange and Awqaf have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) that is aimed at bolstering cooperation between both sides for the best interest of the Emirati community at all levels, first and foremost being sustainability of Waqf funding and development in accordance with the Sharia objectives, in addition to any transactions related to securities. The MoU is in line with the "Year of Giving" initiative launched by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him. It is also intended to enact the social initiatives that Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange is keen to organise and contribute to, as well as bolster cooperation and coordination between local and federal governments.
The MoU was signed on behalf Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange by HE Rashid al Belushi, Chief Executive Officer, and from Awqaf's side by its Chairman, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi. A number of senior officials from both sides were present at the signing.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Rashid al Belushi expressed his gladness to sign such MoU with Awqaf in Abu Dhabi, the latter being one of the entities sponsoring the march of giving and charitable activities in the city in particular, and the UAE, in general. He underlined that the coming stage would see a stronger cooperation between the Abu Dhabi Securities and Awqaf in a manner to reflect the Securities' keen interest in serving the Emirati community and falls in line with its commitment to implement the Abu Dhabi plan to improve and facilitate delivery of government services.
Under the MoU, the two sides will seek to set out a suitable framework, the aim being to facilitate and develop cooperation relationship between them in matters of mutual interest. This include, for instance, activating the charitable Waqf service at the level of securities listed in the Abu Dhabi Securities so as to enable the investors who wish to give their securities as endowment to apply for transferring the ownership of such securities to the designated Waqf account under the care of Awqaf, the latter being the only entity authorised by the Abu Dhabi Securities in this regard. This will be done in accordance with the procedures agreed by both sides.
 













