addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. He rewards those who spend in charity abundantly. Indeed, Allah does not allow to be lost the reward of the doers of good. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "so fear Allah as much as you are able and listen and obey and spend [in the way of Allah]; it is better for your selves." (At-Taghabun: 16).
Dear Muslims,
Allah the Exalted and Blessed is He sent His Prophet Muhammad pbuh as mercy to the whole worlds, carrying the mission of showing compassion with the weak and the youngsters, the poor and the less fortunate. The Prophet's pbuh companions, may Allah be pleased with them, followed in his steps and made mercy and compassion an approach in life. They were so merciful that Allah, the Almighty praised them as "merciful amongst themselves." (Al-Fath: 29). That is to say, they are compassionate with one another.
In such an approach, the companions were seeking the mercy of their Lord, for the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Show mercy to those who are on the earth, and you will be shown mercy from Him Who is above the heavens." As such, the strong amongst them helped the weak, the wealthy provided food for the hungry and they, may Allah be pleased with them, hastened to give in charity, competed in acts of goodness and generosity and extended a helping hand to the needy in line with the Almighty's orders: "and spend out of that in which He has made you successors. For those who have believed among you and spent, there will be a great reward." (Al-Hadeed: 7).
In this Aya, Allah, the Most Beneficent, urges the believers to spend in His way, seeking His satisfaction. In return, He promises them to recompense them in abundance and to multiply their rewards. The Most Generous says, "but whatever thing you spend [in His cause] - He will compensate it; and He is the best of providers." (Sabaa: 39). The Almighty further emphasised the great recompense of spending in His cause in this Aya: "who is it that would loan Allah a goodly loan so He may multiply it for him many times over?" (Al-Baqara: 245).
In this sense, it is mention must that our brotherly people of Somalia are currently experiencing a crisis that breaks the heart and makes the eye cry a real tears. They are under a severe hardship and a national disaster caused by the droughts that struck their lands, leaving them with extreme poverty and famine. This is really a humanitarian disaster and a terrible ordeal that raises the call for urgent aid in order to protect lives and livelihoods.
Thus, all of us are urged to extend our hands to bring relief to those afflicted by such a humanitarian catastrophe in line with the guidance of our Master Muhammad pbuh who said, "And relieve the distressed." So, who is it that would lend a helping hand to feed their starving people in accordance with the commandment of the Prophet pbuh as he said, "Give food to the hungry"?
Our urgent humanitarian aid is needed so as to provide them with clothing and alleviate their sufferings that Allah, the All-Compassionate, may relieve us from the burdens of the Day of Resurrection. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "If anyone relieves a Muslim believer from one of the hardships of this worldly life, Allah will relieve him from one of the hardships of the Day of Resurrection."
 
People's lives in Somalia are in danger, O Worshipers, and their youngsters are helpless. So, let us do whatever possible to contribute to saving their lives. Let us show kindness towards their young ones and mercy towards their elderly, hoping for Allah's mercy. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "The Entirely Merciful One shows mercy on those who are merciful."
Sadly, death has harvested the lives of hundreds of the Somali people who died of starvation so far. Yet, great number of infants are now short of milk and nutrients, men are suffering of thirst and women are food insecure while at the same time weeping as they see their little ones crying. Therefore, they are truly successful those who would take a step to relieve them, dry their tears, return the smile to their faces and touch their hearts with happiness.
These are acts that are amongst the dearest to Allah, the Almighty as the Messenger of Allah said, "The deed that is most loved by Allah, the Almighty, is to bring joy to a Muslim, or to relieve him from one of his troubles, or to pay off some of his debts, or to satisfy his hunger."
Indeed, Allah, the Most Exalted, attributes a great status to such humane deeds. The Almighty says, "and whatever good you put forward for yourselves - you will find it with Allah. It is better and greater in reward." (Al-Muzzammil: 20). The Most Compassionate also says, "indeed, the men who practice charity and the women who practice charity and [they who] have loaned Allah a goodly loan - it will be multiplied for them, and they will have a noble reward." (Al-Hadeed: 18).
More to the point, Allah the Almighty rewards generously the acts of goodness which will be saved in the record of the doers of good and will shade them on the Day of Judgment. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Everyone will be shaded by his charity (on the Day of Judgment) until it has been judged between the people."
 
So, whoever shades the less fortunate with their wealth, sympathy and mercy, Allah, the Most Exalted, by His favour, will shield them under the shade of their Sadaqa (charity) on the Day of Resurrection.
Truly, it is such a merciful act that one stands for their fellow human beings, easing their sorrows at times of need and hardship. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Whoever alleviates the distress of a needy person, Allah will alleviate his needs in this world and the Hereafter. And Allah will remain in the aid of His servant so long as the servant remains in the aids of his brother (Muslim)."
Undoubtedly, whoever shows mercy to other people, Allah, the Almighty, will engulf him with his mercy. And whoever is compassionate to others, Allah will show compassion to them.
With this in mind, we seek Allah's grace to make us amongst those who hasten to relieve the distressed and alleviate the hardship of those afflicted by calamities.
May Allah guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon,
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Lord of the Worlds.
O Worshipers, 
These days, we are celebrating the great anniversary of Israa and Miraj, one that carries many great values that Islam has cemented through the Book of Allah, the Almighty, and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh. One such noble value is showing mercy to human beings and easing their burdens.
Being merciful and compassionate means to sympathise with one another and try possible best to take away all that which causes harm or trouble to others. It also entails extending a helping hand and bringing relief to the distraught people for "indeed, Allah does not allow to be lost the reward of those who do good." (Yusuf: 90). Yet, The Most Merciful, compensate the doers of good for their good actions as evidenced in this Aya: "indeed, Allah rewards the charitable." (Yusuf: 88).
Undoubtedly, the adversity that Somalis are experiencing now requires all of us to respond to the calls of the UAE wise leadership by contributing with as good as could be. There are people in Somalia who are food insecure, short of clothing, lacking drinking water and medicine. Certainly, our contributions will help ease their difficulties. The Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever has surplus of food should give it to him who has no food."
You are, therefore, urged to support the "For you Somalia" campaign with your Sadaqa and Zakat on your wealth, seeking Allah's satisfaction. Allah, the Almighty, says, "and whatever you do of good - indeed, Allah is Knowing of it." So, the time to act is now, and any support that you will provide may help in saving the life of a child, a woman or an elderly person. Thus, you will attain the status of the one who saves a soul, about whom Allah, the Most Exalted says, "and whoever saves one (soul) - it is as if he had saved mankind entirely." 
 
Knowing this, let us embody the benevolence and mercy of our religion by engaging in acts of goodness and being active contributors to helping the afflicted around us. Let us quickly respond to the appeals for help of the Somali people.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh in line with Allah's orders: "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we pray to You to relieve the hardship of the people of Somalia, alleviate their distress, satisfy their hunger and help them in their ordeal, O the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous. 
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
 
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
-----
Official announcement from Awqaf
To be delivered after Friday prayer 21/04/2017
Dear Muslims,
The UAE government strives to enable the Emirati youth by supporting them, developing their talents and preparing them to be up to their responsibilities. As part of such unwavering efforts, the Federal Competitive and Statistics Authority is conducting a survey for youth well-being and development. The survey will continue till 10/5/2017. Thus, you are urged to cooperate with the Federal Competitiveness and Statistics and help it create a precise and accurate database.   
That is said, we beseech Allah to confer His blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
 
 













