addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As of the date of publishing the first online Fatwa, being March 11, 2008, until date, the number of Fatwas published on Awqaf's official website and blog reached 81,516. Members of the public from all walks of life have access to such Fatwas.
Awqaf's online Fatwa archive includes 925 Fatwas about Islamic culture, 2023 Fatwas on jurisprudence of worship, 333 Fatwas on jurisprudence relating to business transactions, 436 Fatwas on matters related to family and personal affairs, 60 Fatwas on the major and minor sins, and 687 Fatwas on miscellaneous rulings.
Visitors to the Fatwa archive on Awqaf's website can learn about various rulings on different subject matters. The Fatwa archive tree is organised within a number of categories and subcategories that allows browsers to reach to their preferred topic that they wish to enquire about instantly. To this effect, visitors can see 96 Fatwas on the rulings of Islam, 5 on the Islamic sects and currents, another 127 Fatwas on Quran and its sciences, 58 on Sunna (Prophet traditions) and its sciences, and 16 Fatwas on the Daawa (inviting for Islam) and its methods. In addition to these, one would find 29 Fatwas on issues of the modern age, 10 Fatwas on Fiqh (Jurisprudence) matters, 7 on theft and anger, 6 on consuming alcohol, 13 addressing the subjects of Zina (fornication or adultery) and homosexuality, as well as 10 Fatwas on murdering.
More to the point, Islamic manners and ethics seized a big part of the public's questions with a total of 181 Fatwas addressing them. Of them, 51 Fatwas on good conducts, 30 on bad conducts, and 72 on the ethics of Islam. Moreover, 26 questions were answered about expiation, 45 about vow taking, 53 about rulings related to faith, 38 questions on rulings related to banking, 76 about work and employment, and 195 questions related to financial and business transactions.
Concerning Fatwas on family and personal affairs, Awqaf's website contains 436 Fatwas in this regard, of which 71 Fatwas on matters generally related to it, 49 on repentance, 75 on rulings related to marriage and divorce, 37 on inheritance, wills and donations, in addition to 250 Fatwas on family affairs. The latter includes 64 Fatwas on parents and their children, 93 on marital relationship and 87 Fatwas on general topics related to family.
The UAE Official Fatwa Centre plays a vital role in enhancing the official Fatwa reference in the country, the aim being to regulate and unify the Fatwa practices in the UAE and thus closing the doorway for personal and improvised Fatwas. It also aims to facilitate direct communication between people from all walks of life and the people of knowledge and Islamic law scholars, as well as enhance religious awareness and instil the Islamic concepts of moderation and tolerance in the community. It is further aimed at learning more about the society's needs, and helping people resolve their problems in compliance with Islamic Shariaa.
 













