addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah. I praise Him, the Almighty, as befitting to His Sublime Countenance and Supreme Status. To Him belongs all the pure and inherently blessed praises. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He calls us to embrace every noble ethics. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best amongst people in fulfilling his convents and the epitome of truthfulness. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Sublime, in line with His orders: "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al-Baqara: 281).
O Worshipers,
Islam attributed a great status and a noble standing to ethics and good manners. Those who follow such ethics in their dealings with others will, by Allah's favour, attain His great rewards and be loved by His Messenger pbuh and close to him on the Day of Resurrection. The Prophet pbuh said in this regard, "Shall I tell you who amongst you I love the most and the one who will be closest to me on the Day of Judgment?" The people said, "Yes, O Messenger of Allah!" He pbuh said, "The best amongst you in character."
Thus, those who embrace good ethics will attain so high standing so they become the closest in seat to the Messenger of Allah pbuh on the Day of Judgment. Furthermore, by practicing truthfulness, a person betters himself, his life is made upright and due to it, he is elevated to praiseworthy heights in the sight of people. On this account, a poet said what it meant, "Be of good character and the odour of praises to you will be more fragrant than the best perfumes."
Amongst the most noble ethics and good qualities is truthfulness, a value that means commitment to fulfil ones promises, covenants and obligations. In fact, promise keeping has a very great positive impact on enhancing trust amongst people. Thus those who fulfil their covenants will win the affection of Allah, the Almighty as well as the people. Indeed, Allah, the Most Exalted, loves that His servants should embrace the best of qualities.
In an indication to the importance and high status of such merit, Allah, the Most Sublime, attributed it to His Supreme Self, for he says, "and who is truer to his covenant than Allah?" (At-Tawba: 111).
Moreover, in His holy Book, Allah, the All-High, praised the people of understanding for fulfilling their covenant to their Lord. The Most Exalted says, "they will only be reminded who are people of understanding. Those who fulfil the covenant of Allah and do not break the contract." (Ar-Raad: 19-20).
Muslims of such qualities are truly the best for Allah, the Almighty, on the Day of Judgment as illustrated by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "Indeed, those will be the best of creatures in the sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection; those who are trustworthy and purified."
That is to say: those who are truthful in their dealings and beautify themselves with the best of manners, seeking the satisfaction of Allah, the Almighty. This is because they understand that they will be accountable for keeping their word if front of Allah, the Most Gracious. The All-Great says, "and fulfil [every] commitment. Indeed, the commitment is ever [that about which one will be] questioned." (Al-Israa: 34). This means, keep your promises to one another and fulfil your covenants and contracts, for everyone will be asked about their covenants and promises on the Day of Judgment.
O Keepers of the Promises,
Please know that Allah, the Creator of the universe, instructed us to be truthful to His covenant, for He says, "and the covenant of Allah fulfil. This has He instructed you that you may remember." (Al-Anaam: 152). That is say: obey Allah's orders and avoid all that which He has prohibited you to do. Adhere to the teachings of His holy Book and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh. By so doing, you will fulfil the covenant of Allah so as to win His satisfaction and be admitted to His Paradise.
Undoubtedly, Allah, the Almighty, fulfils His promises to His faithful believers, for He says, "and fulfil My covenant [upon you] that I will fulfil your covenant [from Me], and be afraid of [only] Me." (Al-Baqara: 40). This means, if you adhere to My commands, I shall fulfil My promise to You by accepting your good deeds, rewarding you in return with My satisfaction and admitting you to My Paradise.
In this sense, if a Muslim takes vows before Allah, the Almighty, they should fulfil their vows, and thus be amongst the righteous those whom Allah praised by saying, "they [are those who] fulfil [their] vows and fear a Day whose evil will be widespread." (Al-Insan: 7).
On another level, being truthful to the Messenger of Allah can be achieved by adhering to his commandments, following his Sunna (traditions) and loving him more than anyone else. Truly, obeying the Prophet pbuh is associated with the obedience of Allah, the Most Exalted. The Almighty says, "he who obeys the Messenger has obeyed Allah." (An-Nisaa: 80).
Another aspect of trustworthiness that Allah, the Almighty, has enjoined upon us is commitment to all contracts that one concludes with others. The Most High says in this regard, "O you who have believed, fulfil [all] contracts." (Al-Maeda: 1). In this Aya, there is an order by Allah, the Almighty, to His faithful believers to fulfil their contracts.
This can be achieved by committing oneself to the full term of one's contract without breaking it or decreasing its obligations. This is a rule that is applicable on all kind of contracts that might be concluded amongst people in accordance with the Islamic law. It also includes keeping any promises that one might give to others. And if for some reason one cannot keep his promise, then he should seek pardoning of those whom he gave word to.
 
Allah, the Almighty, praises those who show accountability to their promises, for He says, "[those who] fulfil their promise when they promise." (Al-Baqara: 177). The Almighty describes them as being truthful and pious. So, He says, "those are the ones who have been true, and it is those who are the righteous." (Al-Baqara: 177). This is because they do not break their promises or covenants, but rather are trustworthy.
O Believers,
One other aspect of being true to one's word is by paying back one's debts to their creditors. Indeed, showing commitment to one's liabilities is one of the most elevated traits of trustworthiness amongst people that has a significant positive impact on the community. It promotes trust and encourages interaction amongst people. Thus, whoever borrows money from someone else must be honest to them by paying them back their money. This way, people's rights would be safeguarded and those who are true to others will, by Allah's grace, attain His forgiveness and mercy.
Another way of engendering this most noble value in our daily life is by being grateful to those who did favours to us. Gratefulness really reflects one's appreciation to others' acts of goodness. In this sense, after Allah and His Messenger, showing gratitude towards one's homeland is the first and foremost duty incumbent on Muslims.
In this regard, it was narrated that Al Asmaei said, "If you want to judge a man's truthfulness and commitment to his covenant, then you should look for his longing to his homeland." Being grateful to one's nation can be shown by loving and being loyal to it, defending its boundaries and striving in the way of its prosperity and development.
Having this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the Almighty, to make us amongst those who are true to their promise and fulfil their covenants.
O Allah, we beseech You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
 
 May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
As to what follows,
Please be aware, O Worshipers, that being of good manners is the best blessing that can be bestowed upon a man. Indeed, the noblest of good conducts is truthfulness. Part of the quality of truthfulness is being grateful to one's parents by obeying them, treating them in kindness, striving to touch their heart with happiness and accompanying them in this world with appropriate kindness.
Allah, the Most Gracious, made parents the cause for our existence and associated showing gratitude to Him with being grateful to one's parents, for He says, "be grateful to Me and to your parents; to Me is the [final] destination." (Luqman: 14).
Furthermore, one should also be true to their kith and kin as well as all other people around them. Being true to one's relatives can be achieved by showing affection towards them, and to friends and neighbours by treating them in compassion. Meanwhile, at the level of professional relationship, a manager can be truthful to his subordinates by fulfilling his promises to them.
Such practices are truly conducive to promote trust and harmony amongst people. On this matter, an Arabic word of wisdom said what it meant, "With truthfulness brotherhood is boundless."
 
It is really such a beautiful thing for one to be committed to their words in all their daily life matters and thereby reap the fruits of their truthfulness in this world by being loved, trusted and respected by others and in the Hereafter by attaining Allah's great rewards. The Almighty says, "and he who fulfils that which he has promised Allah - He will give him a great reward." (Al-Fath: 10).
You are, therefore, urged, dear Believers, to promote the virtue of truthfulness in all your dealings with one another. You should also nurture such a great value in the minds and hearts of your sons and daughters.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. He pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we implore to you to beautify us with good manners and help us to be truthful and fulfilling to the rights of others. Indeed, You are the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
 
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment. 
O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us. 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 













