addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Commemorating the anniversary of Israa and Miraj, Awqaf held a celebration on Monday at the National Archive theatre in Abu Dhabi. The ceremony was attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, HE Dr Farouq Hamada, Advisor at the Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Court, the Deputy Ambassador of the Republic of Sudan to the UAE, Christian clergy in the UAE, executive directors of Awqaf, and scholars from Sudan, alongside a host of UAE's scholars, Imams and Khateebs.
On this occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi delivered a speech entitled "Meeting of Prophets and Messages" in which he extended heartfelt greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates as well as the Islamic nations and peoples of the whole world.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi said, "Meeting of the Prophets means that all of the divine messages share certain objectives, the aim being building mankind and civilisations. Indeed, this was the very goal behind attributing the miracle of Israa and Miraj to the Prophet Muhammad pbuh by Allah, the Almighty. He allowed him to meet with his brother Prophets at two occasion: the first on earth when the Prophet Muhammad pbuh led them in prayer at the Bait al Maqdis, and the second time in the higher heavens. Therein, he visited Adam, Isa (Jesus), Yahya, Yusuf, Idris, Haroon, Musa and Ibrahim."
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Today, we are witnessing a worldwide distortion of the divine messages through extremism, discrimination, hatred, sectarianism and terrorism. Thus, it is right time we all contemplate on the miracle of Israa and Miraj and try to understand as to why Allah, the Almighty, sent His Messenger Muhammad pbuh on such journey to visit Bait al Maqdis in the Levant."
"Israa to Bait al Maqdis is a journey to the land of prophecies and the great divine messages, a land from which major civilisations acquired their purity, continuity and prosperity. It was a journey which took the Messenger of Allah Muhammad pbuh to the land of his father Ibrahim and his brothers, Isaac, Yaaqoub, Yusuf, Dawood, Suleiman, Musa, Isa, Zakaria and Yahya pbut," Dr al Kaabi added.
"This journey was aimed at renewing the pure spiritual connections and cementing the culture of peaceful co-existence amongst nations and peoples as well as the followers of the divine messages," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
Then Dr al Kaabi highlighted that, on this anniversary, mankind could not but ponder upon the great indications and lessons that can be drawn from such a gracious miracle where the Prophets met, by Allah's will, at the Bait al Maqdis to welcome the Messenger of Allah pbuh.
Further underlining the purpose of such meetings, Dr al Kaabi said, "One should contemplate on the way the Prophets and Messengers received their brother Muhammad pbuh, seal of the Prophets, honoured him and made him lead their prayer. One should carefully consider the hospitality shown to the visitor in the Prophetic traditions. Moreover, one must ponder on the meetings of the Prophets in the higher heavens, which calls for a question on the purpose of such meeting. Were these just incidental meetings for exchange of greetings and supplications?"
"In fact, authentic narrations lead us to a much deeper view. During these meetings there was a dialogue between messages that carried the values of mercy, tolerance, kindness and all of the noble ethics that are conducive to serve the happiness of the humankind," Dr al explained, adding that the miracle of Israa and Miraj included such a highly spiritual meetings between the Prophets and Messengers so as to reflect positively on the followers of those Prophets. As a result they should co-exist peacefully and show tolerance to one another," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
"In this sense, the followers of one Prophet are expected to co-exist and be tolerant amongst themselves. However, it is regretful that many of the followers have exploited such superior goals through disagreement and conflicts on inferior issues, misinterpretations and one-sided stances," Dr al Kaabi added.
"Such differences, conflicts and sectarianism burdened the divine messages. Many human tragic situations have been created due to those misinterpretations," said Dr al Kaabi, wondering: "Is this what the Prophets, Messengers, scholars and renewing people aimed for?"
To answer such question, Dr al Kaabi brought the following Aya as evidence from the holy Quran: "mankind was [of] one religion [before their deviation]; then Allah sent the prophets as bringers of good tidings and warners and sent down with them the Scripture in truth to judge between the people concerning that in which they differed. And none differed over the Scripture except those who were given it - after the clear proofs came to them - out of jealous animosity amongst themselves." (Al-Baqara: 213).
"Let us underline the phrase 'out of jealous animosity amongst themselves.' It is an evidence that the human sufferings and crises are not part of the religion nor are they amongst its objectives. The problem is rather in the followers of the religion who misinterpreted the religion according to their whims and the interests of their groups. Indeed, woe to a scholar, a group or a party who lead their communities into deception and devastation. They differed out of jealous animosity amongst themselves, disregarding people's interests. Undoubtedly, those neither seek improvement of the religion nor that of the societies," explained Dr al Kaabi. 
Dr al Kaabi concluded by saying, "The message that we would like to convey through this gathering to all the scholars of all religions as well as all the peoples of the world is: You are urged to cooperate in goodness, co-exist in tolerance, reconcile your difference with humbleness and respect. Such is the message that all the Prophets carried. Those are the principles that the anniversary of Israa and Miraj miracle nurtures in our minds and hearts, a miracle that occurred to the Prophet Muhammad pbuh in the tenth year after receiving the prophecy."
Other speakers in the ceremony included Abdullah al Junaid, Mufti, who delivered a speech under the title "Israa and Miraj: a journey of religious harmony" in which he further stressed what Dr al Kaabi discussed and highlighted that peace was one of the meanings of the Miracle of Israa and Miraj.
For her part, preacher Mariam al Zaidi delivered a speech in which she addressed some of the values and ethics reflected in the miracle of Israa and Miraj.
The last speaker in the event was preacher Sabaa al Kaabi, delivering a speech entitled "Israa and Miraj: Hope making." In his speech, al Kaabi discussed the attempts by human beings to understand their surrounding universe, recalling, on this occasion, the UAE space project "Mission to Mars - Hope", as a symbol for building, stability, innovation and hope for reviving the Arab Islamic civilisation. He concluded by underlining that the UAE have become a source of hope for the Arab and Islamic world in space sciences and other knowledge areas.
After that, the audience listened to a chant by female students from Quran memorisation centres on the miracle attributed to the Messenger of Allah pbuh. Later, Dr al Kaabi honoured the Emirati female winners in the "Little preachers" contest that was launched by Awqaf with the aim of promoting social participation in religious programmes and encouraging competitiveness amongst the youngsters.
The competition targeted Emirati male and female students aged up to 15 years. Three girls won the first places and were honoured by Dr al Kaabi who presented them cash prizes and appreciation certificates.
 













