addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Awqaf's Training Centre for Imams and Khateebs received the second group of Imams and Khateebs from Sudan who are joining a comprehensive training course in which they will learn about the UAE's Awqaf approach in addressing matters related to contemporary Islamic ideology and the horizons of Fatwa issuance on modern issues in accordance with the objectives of Islam and its laws as well as the Prophet's Sunna.
The course also tackles etiquettes of dialogue, art of communication and tents of the moderate religious discourse, in addition to such sciences and arts that are conducive to refine the skills of Imams and Khateebs. It will start on Monday, April 24 and continue through May 4, 2017.
Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, met with the visiting Imams and Khateebs, welcoming them and hailing the directives of the leaderships of both the UAE and Sudan to strengthen cooperation amongst the two brotherly peoples in various fields, including the religious one and points that needs to be discussed in terms of cultural and jurisprudential developments. He also expressed his thanks to the Embassy of Sudan to the UAE for cooperating and coordinating the activation of agreements concluded between the two religious entities in both the countries as well as in areas of training, qualification, exchange of research, studies and the use of modern technology in a manner to boost the skills of Imams and Khateebs.
Addressing the Sudanese Imams and Khateebs, Dr al Kaabi said, "We appreciate the scientific and technical qualifications that you have acquired from the religious universities and institutes in the brotherly country of Sudan. Thus, we are honoured to receive you in this course that is aimed at allowing more deep discussions and dialogue between you and your peer scholars, preachers and Muftis from the UAE. This will result in further harmonised mutual thoughts, and deeper insights into an approach that is based on solid religious references and modern innovation, which ultimately will help elevate the contemporary Islamic ideology, refine the religious discourse as well as combat extremisms and eliminate all that may distort the pure image of Islam."
"Such efforts will also contribute to protecting the national and human societies from the chaos that are triggered by the worldwide terrorist groups being driven under by deviated ideas and incorrect interpretations of the religious texts," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
Worth mentioning, this course is being held at the Training Centre for Imams and Khateebs in Abu Dhabi, one of the most developed training centres in the Islamic world. The centre's scientific programmes address the most important issues in Fiqh and intellectual areas as well as mechanisms of renewing the religious discourse in modern age. It also offers field visits to such research centres in the UAE as the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre, the Official Fatwa Centre, Quran memorisation centres' management department and Hidayah Centre.
 













