addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid Bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ajman, opened the Obaid Al Heloo Mosque at Manama area in Ajman.
Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, attended the inauguration of the mosque, which accommodates 3,000 worshipers, 1000 inside the mosque and 2000 in the outdoor courtyard.
Commenting on the occasion, HH Sheikh Al Nuaimi hailed the great interest in mosque affairs, Quran memorisation centres and charitable endowments by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates.
HH the Ruler of Ajman further expressed his happiness and appreciation for the remarkable interest by UAE citizens in the construction of mosques, Quran memorisation centres and charitable Waqf, the aim being to support the mission of Awqaf. He also praised Awqaf's efforts in the field of cultural and spiritual development in the UAE. 
Then, HH Sheikh Humaid and those accompanying him toured several facilities attached to the mosque, including a Quran memorisation centre, multi-purpose hall, outdoor courtyard that accommodates around 2000 worshipers, and a number of commercial shops.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi highly valued the care and support of the UAE wise leadership in disseminating and promoting the cultural mission and role of charitable endowments in the UAE. Such interest, he said, is based on the leadership's belief in the significant role of Waqf in serving the best interests of the society. 
Dr al Kaabi also expressed his heartfelt thanks and appreciation to HH the Ruler of Ajman for honouring him with taking part in the opening of the mosque. He lauded HH's support to and care of the houses of Allah and the Quranic centres, as well as his blessed contributions to enhancing the Waqf tradition in the UAE.
Dr al Kaabi also hailed, on the occasion, the initiative by the family of late Obeid al Hiloo to construct such a charitable complex that is aimed to serve residents of Al Manama area and its neighbourhoods.
Concerning the mosque, Dr al Kaabi pointed out that it added value to the mosques existing in the area.
The mosque features the elegance and beauty of architectural design, accommodating 1000 male worshipers in addition to the women's Muslla that accommodates around 100 female worshipers. Several facilities are attached to the mosque, including accommodation for Imam and Muezzin, water closets and ablution corners that were furnished with fittings of the highest standards. Mosque goers will also be offered sufficient number of parking spaces. The facilities also well accommodate for the requirements of those with special needs, whether in the mosque's entrances, service or parking areas.  
Furthermore, the mosque's Quran memorisation centre can accommodate up to 150 male and female students. Other facilities affiliated to the mosque include a lecture hall and a number of offices for support services. Awqaf has ensured equipping the Quranic centre with tutors of the highest credentials and the best curriculums, in addition to providing air-conditioned buses for students' transportation purposes.    
Attendants of the event included Mohammed Obeid al Mazrouei, Executive Director for Islamic Affairs at Awqaf, Dr Farouq Hamada, Advisor at the Court of Abu Dhabi Crown Prince, Tariq bin Ghaleita al Ghafli, Office Director of Ajman Ruler, Obeid Hamad al Zaabi, Director of Awqaf's branch in Ajman, Directors of Awqaf's branches and a number of government departments' directors, alongside a host of senior officials and dignitaries.
 













