addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Today is a day of honour, glory and heroism. In loyalty to the homeland, its wise leadership and people, as well as the whole Arabs, we stand today in honouring our Armed Forces, martyrs and martyrdom. On this day, we recall the speech that our founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, delivered in 1993 marking the 22nd anniversary of the UAE National Day.
In his speech, Sheikh Zayed addressed the UAE Armed Forces, outlining a clear approach to its military doctrine, saying, "Building our armed forces has been one of the most important achievements accomplished by the UAE. Such force, being established with the aim of defending the country, protecting its achievements and safeguarding the safety and security of its land and citizens..., is based on the principles of supporting peace, committing no aggression against others' rights and preventing others from violating our legitimate rights..."
Years later, in 2000, while the UAE was marking its 29th National Day amidst a fast paced national renaissance at all levels, our armed forces, thanks to its ambitious leadership, its Staff, divisions and formations, was building its military model with unremitting resilience having no place for the word impossible in its dictionary. Truly, this was an embodiment of what late Sheikh said in that year: "We have succeeded in building a modern army that is capable of surmounting the challenges and threats gaping our homeland and safeguarding the march of prosperity of its citizens. All this was achieved thanks to wise planning and making best use of sophisticated systems, arms and means of strategic defence. We are absolutely satisfied with the advancement achieved by our armed forces that is conducive to position it at the forefront of modern armies, both in terms of weapon systems and organisation."
Today, seventeen years after such speech, we, as well as each Arab citizen, have the right to pride ourselves with the epics of pride and glory that are being written by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Nevertheless, in its essence, the power of the UAE is the one that late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, sought out and was recently announced by the UAE wise leadership. It is the soft power; the power of industrial, economic, medical, educational and cultural innovations. It is the power of prosperity and development in producing smart modern technological services, the power of supreme values in education and the creation of hope and happiness for the generations and the humanity in general.
Yet, such soft power by necessity needs a supporting power, namely the power of the guardians of peace, stability and innovation. Indeed, the guardians of the nation are the protectors of its cultural achievements throughout its march of development, outlook on a further thriving and safe future.
On another level, the balance of power in the Arab region entails that the UAE should exercise a strategic military weight in parallel to its comprehensive economic, commercial and reviving weight. The current scene and challenges in the Arab region as well as around the world is witness to that the UAE armed forces is a key player in cementing peace and stability, deterring temptations and dangers, as well as supporting international efforts aimed at preserving peace, human civilisation and its achievements all around the world.
That is said, we pray to Allah, the Almighty, to protect our homeland from every evil and grant success to our armed forces in making stronger peace and security around the world. May Allah also have mercy on our martyrs who proved by their heroism and pure blood that they are the real protectors of the nation and its values and the representors of magnanimity, loyalty and sacrifice.    
 
 













