addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Last week, Awqaf concluded two training courses on judicial seizure provisions for its employees who are authorised to assume the tasks of judicial seizure officers within the UAE mosques. Under the title "Collecting evidences by judicial seizure commissioners in its four chapters, including articles 30-64", the training was done in cooperation and coordination with the Ministry of Justice and Abu Dhabi Judicial Institute and in accordance with the procedures stipulated by the UAE competent authorities concerning the Federal Penal Procedure Law.
More to the point, article number 31 of the Federal Penal Procedure Law states that members of the judicial police are answerable to the public prosecutor and are under his supervision as concerns the performance of their duties. Meanwhile article number 33 of the said law, which was amended by Law number (29) for 2005, specified the first category that may be given the capacity of judicial police officers as concerns the offences perpetrated within their jurisdiction. This included employees who have the capacity of judicial seizure commissioners as per the valid law, decrees and resolutions. The aim is to maintain and protect social and national interests particularly that judicial police is considered as one of the law enforcement authorities that are assigned to ensure a safe and tranquil life as well as a stable and secure community.
Furthermore, amongst the duties of the judicial seizure officers at Awqaf is to ensure implementation of article no. 6 of Cabinet resolution no. (39) of 2012, which stipulates that any acts that include preaching, delivering lectures, education, meetings, Holy Quran learning, conducting social meetings, distribution of books or audio/video materials, collecting donations, using mosques to distribute advertisements and pamphlets are prohibited. They are also expected to ensure implementation of article no. 7 of the said resolution, which prohibits interfering with issues concerning the call for prayer (Adhan), and sermons except by concerned employees appointed by the competent authorities. Additionally, begging or any act that disrupts the security and sanctity of mosques or causes harm to any of their facilities is also forbidden and punishable by law according to the same article.
Such duties that are assigned to the judicial seizure officers are conducive to improve the capability of mosques to achieve their mission in the society and help turning them into oases of faith, safety, knowledge and tranquillity. 
Worth mentioning, 68 male and female employees at Awqaf attended the course.  
 













