addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf announced results of the Hajj electronic registration system, which was adopted for the first time this season 1438 AH, corresponding to 2017 AD, clarifying the mechanism used in approving the applications.
According to the approving mechanism, 80 per cent of the Hajj permits issued this season, have been approved for the first time male and female applicants who are 60 years of age and above. Preference has been given to seniors and people of determination (people with special needs) who have not performed the Hajj rituals earlier. Male and female applicants who are 59 years of age and below and have not performed Hajj before were also given preference based on priority of registration in the system (first-come, first-served).
Meanwhile 20 per cent of the Hajj permits were granted to those who have performed Hajj earlier. These include Mahrams (caretakers) of first-time women pilgrims, and assistants of senior people, patients and people of determination. They are exempted from the priority of electronic registration, however, they should be at least 12 years of age and medically fit.
Concerning those who have performed Hajj before and are not Mahrams or assistants, they were given preference based on the precedence of electronic registration.
The above criteria in approving Hajj applications for this year's season will adopted for next seasons.
In a statement on the occasion for Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, he said all the other applicants who have not performed Hajj before will be given priority in the next seasons 2018/2019.
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that the competitiveness amongst Hajj operators, their strive to provide the possible best services through diverse programmes reflected Awqaf's vision to achieve the UAE leadership's aspiration in bringing happiness to the hearts of people and pilgrims. This has led to a significant drop in the costs of Hajj, allowing the opportunity to pilgrims to choose the operators of their preference. Such competitiveness also contributed to creating an advanced services related to Hajj and Umrah affairs, Dr al Kaabi concluded.
On a related note, Awqaf will notify applicants who were granted Hajj permit for this season by email and SMS.
Worth mentioning, all applicants who are 60 years of age and above and are registered in the system will perform Hajj this year.
 













