addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf announced May 18, 2017 as the deadline for registering pilgrims who obtained permit to perform Hajj this year's season through the Hajj online registration system.
In a related statement, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said those who obtained Hajj permit to perform the rituals this year should register their data within the specified period, failing to do so will result in transferring their permits to applicants who were chosen to perform Hajj next year's season in accordance with the criteria set out for approvals. He called upon the pilgrims to register as quickly as possible and within the specified period.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed that Hajj permits are a right preserved for Awqaf and those cannot be transferred to anyone else. Awqaf will rather reallocate the permits to pilgrims who are on the list for next Hajj season. This includes permits of those who are approved for the current season and for some reason will not be able to perform Hajj as well as those who fail to register before the deadline, he explained.
Dr al Kaabi called upon pilgrims to register with their Hajj operators of choice as quickly as possible. Pilgrims, he added, can access the website using the given reference number in order to learn about the available programmes and services and choose the suitable ones as per their preference, reiterating that the permits of those who delay registration will be granted to those on the list for 2018 season. 
On a related note, Dr al Kaabi highlighted the strong competitiveness amongst Hajj campaign operators, especially with the success of the electronic registration system. This helped in eliminating previous issues and led to a remarkable drop in the cost of Hajj, he added.
More to the point, Awqaf's Chairman explained that the prices of this year's Hajj packages are varied, yet are better than the previous years' prices, adding that the price is linked to the type of services offered. In fact, the online registration has made a difference and created competitiveness, thus achieving satisfaction of both pilgrims and campaign operators, he underlined.
Dr al Kaabi clarified that in the previous system, Hajj campaign operators used to receive the pilgrims and obtain their permits, whereas in the new system Awqaf issues the permits to the pilgrims and allow them to choose their preferred operator. Awqaf does not interfere in pricing, but ensures that the operators are committed to the terms of the contracts signed with pilgrims, he added.
Dr al Kaabi urged all approved applicants to choose their operators of interest as early as possible, read the guidelines available online, review their contracts thoroughly and visit the medical centres to get the necessary vaccinations. He also encouraged them to attend the awareness seminars and workshops that will be conducted by Awqaf in this regard.  
On another level, Dr al Kaabi underlined that Awqaf adopted new criteria for issuing permits this year where all applicants were approved but those who are not compliant with the criteria will obtain the permit in the next two seasons 2018/2019. All applicants who are 60 years of age and above and are registered in the system will perform Hajj this year, he added.
According to the new criteria, which was applied for the first time this year, 80 per cent of the Hajj permits issued this season, have been approved for the first time male and female applicants who are 60 years of age and above. Preference has been given to seniors and people of determination (people with special needs) who have not performed the Hajj rituals earlier. Male and female applicants who are 59 years of age and below and have not performed Hajj before were also given preference based on priority of registration in the system (first-come, first-served).
Meanwhile 20 per cent of the Hajj permits were granted to those who have performed Hajj earlier. These include Mahrams (caretakers) of first-time women pilgrims, and assistants of senior people, patients and people of determination. They are exempted from the priority of electronic registration, however, they should be at least 12 years of age and medically fit.
Concerning voluntary pilgrims (those who have performed Hajj before and are not Mahrams or assistants), they were given preference based on the precedence of electronic registration. The above mentioned criteria will be applied for next Hajj season as well.
 













