addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. We praise Him, the Most Exalted as be fitting to His Sublime Countenance and Supreme Status. He made good manners amongst the best of that which a Man can acquire. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He urged for preserving good traditions and perfect behaviours. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, fear Allah. And let every soul look to what it has put forth for tomorrow - and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Acquainted with what you do." (Al-Hashr: 18).
O Worshipers,
Islam has placed much importance and given care to good ethics and moral values, the establishment of which was the essence of the message of our Master Muhammad pbuh who was sent to perfect good manners. To this effect, he pbuh urged Muslims to embrace the best of character and most virtuous qualities, which was exemplified in his saying, "Indeed, by his good character, a believer will attain the status of the one who stands for prayer in the night and fast during the day."
Furthermore, in an indication to the high status of morality in Islam, the Prophet pbuh gave good tidings of attaining an abode in the highest of heavens for those who strive to improve their conducts and behaviours. He pbuh said, "I guarantee a house in the upper part of Paradise for a man who made his character good."
 
This is because good manners are heavy in the balance of good deeds on the Day of Judgment as illustrated by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "Nothing is heavier on the believer's scale on the Day of Resurrection than good character."
In this context, upholding good moral values is one of the most important features of the Emirati society. Such feature positively reflects on the coherence, harmony and sophistication that characterises the UAE community. It is also conducive to fortify the younger generations against changing their habits and traditions as well as encourage them to preserve their authentic heritage and noble religious principles that they follow out of self-motivation and firm beliefs that are based on their true faith in Allah, the Almighty, and adherence to the guidance of the Messenger of Allah pbuh.
More to the point, amongst the most valuable ethics that Islam cemented in Muslim community is truthfulness in words and in deeds. Such quality has tremendous positive effect on strengthening bonds amongst people and improving the way they treat one another. Indeed, honesty is a moral value that is highly rewarded by Allah, the Most Gracious, and is the key to Paradise where the truthful will cherish Allah's satisfaction.
An illustration of this can be seen in this Aya in which Allah, the Most High, says, "Allah will say, 'This is the Day when the truthful will benefit from their truthfulness.' For them are gardens [in Paradise] beneath which rivers flow, wherein they will abide forever, Allah being pleased with them, and they with Him. That is the great attainment." (Al-Maeda: 119).
Truly, it is such a great success for those who tell the truth when they speak and fulfil the trust when they are entrusted.
Another moral value that is, in fact, tightly correlated to Honesty is truthfulness, which is also highly cherished by Islam. Fulfilling the covenant is a noble character that reflects perfection of faith. It is a means of preserving properties and honours and safeguarding people's rights. This is why Allah, the Most Sublime, ordered us to be true to our word by saying: "indeed, Allah commands you to render trusts to whom they are due." (An-Nisaa: 58).
 
Moreover, When Allah, the Most Exalted, praised the faithful believers, he promised those who fulfil their covenant with success. He says, "and they who are to their trusts and their promises attentive." (Al-Muminoon: 8).
Undoubtedly, upholding the quality of trustworthiness in dealings will result in further promoting trust and affection amongst the members of the society.
O Well-mannered Worshipers,
One other important moral ethic that Islam highly valuates is patience, one that has a great positive impact on self-restraint and betterment of attitude. Patience is one of the ordains of Allah, the Ever-Merciful, as he says, "but if you are patient - it is better for those who are patient. And be patient, [O Muhammad], and your patience is not but through Allah." (An-Nahl: 126-127). In an indication of the great standing of patience, Allah, the Almighty, promised limitless rewards for whoever is patient. The Most Merciful says, "indeed, the patient will be given their reward without account." (Az-Zumar:10).
Truly, embracing patience and enduring the hardships of the worldly life are amongst the qualities of Emiratis. One can touch this fact in the patience that our fathers and forefathers showed in face of the difficult life conditions in the past as well as in their kind treatment to people from all walks of life in the present.
Our Master Muhammad pbuh commanded us to satisfy others by embracing the best of manners and qualities, meeting them with cheerful face, and showing tolerance and patience while dealing with them. Describing the virtues of patience, he pbuh said, "Nobody can be given a blessing better and greater than patience." Truly, upholding such conducts is conducive to instil love and solidarity amongst the members of the community.
O Believers, 
Embracing good manners is a way towards attaining Allah's satisfaction and praise. Being an epitome of morality, Allah, the Almighty, specially praised his Prophet pbuh by saying, "and indeed, you are of a great moral character." (Al-Qalam: 4). Unquestionably, following high moral ethics and values, and preserving one's traditions and customs represents a civilised identity and results in praiseworthy reputation. Thus, the younger generations should keep up the authentic traditions and beautiful habits of their fathers and grandfathers who derived such values from the principles of Islam.
Islam has laid down the pillars of good manners that Muslims followed in all their daily life affairs. They were satisfied with such moral system and thus preserved it from one generation to the other. Generation after another, Islam's ethics were met with acceptance and respect until these have become part and parcel of Muslims' cultural heritage. A good example on this can be seen in the following Hadith. It was narrated that once the Prophet pbuh saw one of the companions wearing a clothing that was inconsistent with the then community traditions. Thereupon, he forbade him from wearing it and ordered him to change it off.
So, traditions and customs are respected and valued in Islam. In this sense, our youths must be well aware that the homeland is an honourable reputation and a great trust. Thus one should be loyal to his nation and fulfil its right on him. The young generations can be the best ambassadors of the nation with their good manners, commitment to the principles of Islam, respect to public laws and etiquettes, taking good care of the scientific edifices, educational institutions and other public facilities. The reason is that those components represent the civilised cultural facades of our nation and through their respectful behaviour and good treatment to others, the youths would reflect a bright image of their homeland.
With this in mind, we supplicate to Allah, the Most Giving, to beautify us with the best of character and the noblest manners. May Allah also grant us success to say the best of speech and do the best of deeds. 
O Allah, we supplicate to You to guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
O Worshipers,
Young generations are the most dynamic national power of the nation, and its impenetrable fort. In their hands lies its present and they are the makers of its future. They safeguard its land and build its glory. Thus, they show keen interest in making best use of all that which benefit them, elevate their status and uplift the standing of their homeland. In so being they follow the guidance of the Prophet pbuh who said, "Strive for that which will benefit you, seek the help of Allah, and do not feel helpless."
The UAE, thanks to Allah the Almighty, has attained the highest of levels in terms of its reputation worldwide and competitiveness benchmarks. Sustaining such achievements is a responsibility that lies in the hands of the nation's youths. They should, therefore, seek development of their potentials, honing their skills and expanding their perceptions through reading, learning and upholding the country's traditions and preserving its heritage.
In this sense, our young generations should show diligence in acquiring knowledge and modern sciences so as to continue the march of civilizational building of their homeland. They are also expected to exhibit active and positive contributions in every area that is conducive to boost the UAE's elite position. It is their duty, as well, to strive to reach the highest levels with unremitting will because this is amongst the deeds that are dearest to Allah, the Most Gracious. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "Indeed, Allah loves high vigour and honourable deeds, and hates trivial pursuits."
Knowing this, we are all urged to nurture in the minds and hearts of our sons and daughters the principle of preserving our authentic traditions and noble values. We should also encourage them to seek knowledge and embrace the best of manners.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. He pbuh said: "For every one who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we beseech Your grace to guide us to the best of manners for no one can guide to the best of them except You. O Allah, we implore to You to protect us from bad conducts for none can protect against them but You. Indeed, You are the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Allah, we implore you to send upon us wealthy rain and make us not amongst those who are desperate. O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Allah, relieve us! O Lord, provide us from the blessings of the sky a beneficial rain and make our crops grow.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 













