addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Scholars and senior officials affirmed that the UAE has taken advanced steps ahead of countries of the world in enacting laws and regulations that are aimed at combating extremist ideology and terrorism. They further highlighted the increasing risks of cyberterrorism in all its forms, embodied in spreading horror amongst peoples and countries, noting that such cybercrimes pose threats on all countries all over the world and is targeting all religions, ideologies and sects without discrimination.
It was also underlined that extremists, whether in ideology or religion, are exploiting the cyber space and social media channels in expanding their activities, mobilising new members using a brain washing mechanisms through the internet. This led to the emergence of what is called "lone wolves" via the internet. Those are individual members who execute criminal actions outside of any command structure and without being split from any extremist groups.
The scholars and senior officials further highlighted the necessity of criminalising cyberterrorism at global level, stressing that the absence of international legislations in this regard allows the opportunity for those deviated criminals to work without fearing from any legal consequences. As a result, they added, being safe from any punishment, they abuse the cyber space and commit electronic terrorism.
A global phenomenon
On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman and Secretary General of the Forum for Promoting Peace, emphasised that, more than any other time, the whole world needed to concert efforts in order to save the human civilisation from the threats imposed by terrorism, pointing out that the most dangerous type of terrorism is the electronic one, which is luring the young generations from all religions.
"Undoubtedly, terrorism, in all its types, is a global phenomenon that requires instant action, the aim being to close all the gaps leading to it or through which the terrorists are able to sneak in. Such phenomenon has become a threat to human civilisation and to the interests of innocent people," Dr al Kaabi added.
He continued saying, "Islam is a religion of peace that seeks to protect human beings and safeguard their rights. Islam warns against extremism even in performing acts of worship, and prohibits ill-treatment of others in words and in deeds. It also enjoins virtuousness and cooperation in righteousness, which can be illustrated in the Prophet Muhammad pbuh's Hadith regarding Hilf al Fudool (League of the virtuous), as he said, 'If I were invited to it, I will accept it.'"
Dr al Kaabi further underscored the need for eliminating the phenomenon of cyber terrorism in the age of information technology, especially as it has become a worldwide threat that requires devising effective solutions and taking preventive measures that are conducive to stop such dangerous invasion that is threatening the economy, security and stability of the world's countries as well as the human civilisation in general.  
Dr al Kaabi pointed out that, adopting the smart government, the UAE wise leadership has taken a precautionary measures by laying down laws and regulations that were aimed at ensuring the safety of the society and combatting all actions that may encourage discord, disgrace others or offend them, whether in words or deeds. He clarified that founding such a legal ground to eradicate, monitor and control such a global phenomenon has become the goal of those of understanding and wisdom all around the world.
Creating an international law that criminalises cybercrimes and the use of technology mediums for such actions as committing terrorist attacks, tempting others to commit such actions, promoting hatred, posting expressions that support criminal or terrorist actions, is conducive to dry the roots of terrorism and put things right for saving humanity and protecting people, especially from those who live in different places around the world and work on inflaming turmoil, calling for killing, Takfir (accusing others of apostasy) and terrorism, as well as attracting and mobilising individuals online, Dr al Kaabi underlined. 
Concerning effort to counter such terrorist activities, Dr al Kaabi said that several organisation around the world are working on addressing such concerns using logic, evidence and corrective mechanism, the aim being to spare the blood of innocent people. Such organisations, include the Forum for Promoting Peace, which implemented a number of ideas that are conducive to bond the divine religions and promote cooperation in righteousness, Dr al Kaabi added, stressing that such efforts should be supported with an international legislation that criminalises electronic terrorism.
A fundamental legislation
For his part, His Eminence Sheikh al Habib Ali al Jifri, chairman of Tabah Foundation, said, "We are in dire need for an international law to counteract extremism and terrorism with clear criteria for defining cyber terrorism. Such step should be carried in parallel with efforts to promote awareness about the dangers of this kind of terrorism and elevating the level of understanding amongst the youths on how to handle information, analyse it and differentiate between what is acceptable and what is unacceptable before hasting to interact with and circulate them."
"This is a religious and national duty that should be discharged by the various religious, educational and media institutions. In fact, this is our goal at Tabah Foundation through our proactive awareness programme launched under the name 'Sanad network'. The programme includes workshops, analysis, awareness programmes, short films and booklets," Dr al Jifri added.
According to Dr al Jifri, electronic terrorism means any kind of offence that might instigate hatred, be it verbal, written or actions that are based on religious, racial, political or any other grounds. Such kind of assault is existing and being practiced in the name of Islam, Christianity, Jewism, Buddhism, Hinduism, or even on ethnic and national basis. This includes praising the deviated foreign ideologies, promoting them and provoking unlawful violence using the law's tools, he further explained.
Al Jifri also pointed out that the consequences of such terrorism can be clearly seen in the inflammation that is sweeping the region, the widespread blood shedding, devastation, hatred and killing. Preventing such threats requires both awareness raising efforts and addressing the ideological, political, economic, social and psychological roots that pave the way for accepting deviated thoughts.
Dr al Jifri highlighted a number of initiatives launched by Tabah that were aimed at uncovering the truth about cyberterrorism committed in the name of religion. "We have produced a video and a booklet about those who allow themselves to use insulting speech, giving it legitimacy in the cloak of religion. Our work in this context included several preventive titles, especially those which justify transgressing others, such as a video under the title Ya Kafir (O non-believer). We have also expanded our activities in this regard to include translation into 14 languages," he concluded.  
UAE in the lead
On a related note, Mohammed al Ghafli, lawyer, stressed that the UAE has taken a leading step at world's level in issuing laws that keep pace with the modern developments in general, including anti-extremism laws. He added that the UAE has immunised the society against all such provocative actions. To this effect, whoever commits a deed that may instigate hatred, discrimination, or humiliating people based on colour, gender, religion or sect, will face legal consequences. He explained.  
Al Ghafli added that international concerted efforts are necessary to combat such hideous attacks worldwide, especially that the majority of terrorist actions are being committed around the globe on basis of racism and the belief of a specific party that they are the only owners of the complete truth. 
International efforts
For his part, Mohammed al Khadrami, lawyer, underscored that all religions call for peace and security. Whoever gives the right to himself to judge others is wrong, and whoever deviates from the framework of religion is a terrorist, regardless of their reasoning, al Khadrami, added, noting that the dark internet and social media platforms have become a source of terrorism; a medium for provoking animosity and a theatre for performing terrorist attacks. Thus, it has become a necessity to formulate an international law that criminalises terrorist and provocative actions and gives the right to the country in which such acts are committed to arrest those criminals, he added.
"We are suffering from a global imbalance because of terrorism in all its types and background, particularly that some people are using technology platforms for the purpose of promoting their ideas and imposing their opinion, including some religious leaders. Moreover, some communication channels are being used for inciting killing, including the making of bombs or explosives. As a result, the world today is in dire need for resolute international efforts in order to cut the roots of such ideologies that do not belong to any of the divine religions. This can be done through legislation, awareness raising, wisdom and good instruction," al Khadrami highlighted, concluding by emphasising the need for imposing laws that are conducive to eliminate such ideologies at a time when communication channels have become a sink and a platform serving extremists.
 













