addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Abu Dhabi Distribution Company (ADDC), a subsidiary of Abu Dhabi Electricity and Water Authority, the Abu Dhabi General Services Company (Musanada) and Awqaf signed yesterday a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for launching a project that is aimed at reducing the consumption of ablution water in Abu Dhabi mosques by a rate of up to 50 per cent. This will be achieved through replacing 42000 water taps in 2684 mosques, the aim being to transform those mosques into facilities that adopt rationalisation of water consumption.
The project is aimed at bringing down to 50 per cent the water consumed in mosques by means of replacing water taps at ablution areas with other highly efficient ones that are equipped with automatic valves. It also seeks to promote awareness amongst worshipers about the importance of rationalising water consumption.
The project is part of the "Tarshid" (rationalisation) programme, launched by ADWEA during the Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week that seeks to help consumers optimise water and electricity consumption.
The ADCC's records for 2015 showed that the consumption of water in Abu Dhabi mosques reached 8.9 million cubic metres with an average consumption of 9,171 litres per day per mosque.
Referring to the Sunnah of the Prophet Mohammed pbuh, the consumption of water in mosques should be at the rate of 600 cubic millimetres per capita ablution, which calls for the need to save 85 per cent of the water currently used in mosques. 
Commenting on the occasion, ADDC's Acting Director General, Saeed Mohammed al Suwaidi said, "The programme is aimed at spreading the culture and practices of optimal use of water in all the mosques of the emirate of Abu Dhabi," pointing out that a three-month pilot project was implemented in five mosques.
The pilot project, al Suwaidi said, contributed to reducing the water consumption in those mosques by a rate of 50 per cent as a result of replacing 259 ablution taps with highly efficient ones that use low-flow and self-closure techniques. This is line with the regulations related to mosque development in Abu Dhabi and meets the specifications of "ESTIDAMA" (sustainability) set by the Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council.
Al Suwaidi added that the necessary budgets, technical and logistic supplies have been allocated to achieve the goal of the project, being to replace more than 42000 taps in the 2684 remaining mosque. This is conducive to reduce the annual consumption of water at least by a rate of 50 percent, in addition to saving around AED 354 million by the end of next ten years, al Suwaidi concluded. 
 













