addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre has issued as many as 78,510 Fatwas during the first quarter of the current year. Fatwas over the phone seized a big part of the issued Fatwas, answering a total number of 69,599 questions. Meanwhile, the number of Fatwas via SMS reached to 6,466, while Fatwas through the website answered 2295 questions. Direct personal Fatwas totalled at 150. Moreover, the Fatwa Centre conducted 34 Fatwa sessions in mosques during 2017.
In a statement on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, considered the Fatwa sessions in mosques as a quantum leap in the way of offering Fatwas. The sessions are being conducted in grand mosques where a Mufti visits one of these mosques that are chosen based on the density of population in the area, taking into consideration the geographic distribution of the mosques. This is done in coordination with the Awqaf in Abu Dhabi. Then, the Mufti will receive the worshipers' questions after Al Maghrib prayer and answer to them, he added.
Dr al Kaabi further pointed out that specialised workshops on Iftaa have been conducted for all Muftis across the UAE, adding that during the first quarter of the current year, the department conducted 3 such courses, in addition to activating self-training by allocating a number of specialised Muftis for writing standard Fatwas each in their specialisation. Such Fatwas will be verified and evaluated by grand Muftis to be then circulated to all Muftis, the aim being to unify the released Fatwas based on their subjects, Dr al Kaabi explained.
Dr al Kaabi underlined that "Happiness of Muftis" was added as a new service that is available through the advanced electronic system "call back assist". The service, he said, allows calling back any Mufti who does not avail a service he was looking for as a result of the lines being occupied. The Mufti will define the time for the call back.
"The Interactive Voice Response system (IVR) allows offering several smart services to those who contact the Fatwa Centre from the public. This is achieved through the typical Fatwas which address seasonal subjects that are commonly queried. The caller will listen to a standard answer to his/her question through the IVR system. Another smart service that can be done through the system is the survey. The electronic system provides public opinion polling service, allowing them to give their feedback on the degree of satisfaction with their interaction with the centre's Muftis and the level of services they were offered through calling the centre," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
The system was also developed to assess the Muftis' performance where the phone calls received by the centre are subject to quality assurance system that works through the IVR system. The quality assurance system was developed in accordance with the requirements of the Department of Iftaa. It chooses Fatwas randomly and present them to the committee of Grand Muftis for evaluation, Dr al Kaabi added.
As the holy month of Ramadan is approaching, Dr al Kaabi concluded by highlighting that Awqaf is expected to announce the preparations for the holy month by next Wednesday.
 













