addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf concluded the final eliminations of its holy Quran Memorisation Award in its 8th edition. Eliminations took place at the Al Buteen holy Quran memorisation Centre in Abu Dhabi with participation of 267 male and female contestants, including 49 contestants from the people of determination and inmates belonging to correctional and punitive institutions across the country. The finalists were subject to preliminary qualifiers in which 797 contestants competed in the various categories of the award.
Speaking on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, stressed that the UAE wise leadership gives much attention to the holy Quran learning and memorisation. This, he said, can be seen in the increase in construction of model Quran memorisation centres and conducting Quran memorisation sessions in mosques that accommodates people from all walks of life. He highlighted that such approach is a continuation of the marsh that the late founding leader, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, started, laying down the foundations of the holy Quran memorisation centres in the UAE.
Dr al Kaabi further hailed the great support to the Quranic centres and Awqaf by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
Dr al Kaabi also lauded the great interest shown by the public in the award since its launch, a matter which, he said, contributed to developing the award and increasing its categories, allowing thereby the opportunity for memoriser from all walks of life to participate in it. The award saw the participation of contestants from Awqaf's Quran memorisation centres, sessions in mosques and the officially registered Quran memorisation centres in the UAE, besides institutions for people with special needs as well as inmates belonging to correctional and punitive institutions across the country, he explained.
In a new initiative by Awqaf, this year's finals were conducted at the theatre in presence of contestants' parents and representative of the participating institutions. To this effect, an open day was organised at the National Archive in Abu Dhabi, which earned satisfaction of everyone. 
Worth mentioning, Awqaf will honour the winners in the competition in a final ceremony that will be held during the holy month of Ramadan in presence of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
 













