addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, started today, the first day of the holy month of Ramadan, conducting their programme of lessons, lectures and events in accordance with the schedule organised by Awqaf. 
As part of the programme, lessons under the title "How to welcome Ramadan" were delivered in several mosques in Abu Dhabi. During the lessons, the scholars explained to the fasting people the duties, traditions and etiquettes of fasting as well as the qualities that a fasting Muslim should embrace during the blessed month. Having abstained from eating and drinking, the fasting Muslim's ear, tongue, eye and other senses should also fast with him by abstaining from all that the Prophet pbuh has prohibited, the scholars clarified. This way, the holy month would be really represent what values the Messenger of Allah mentioned when he supplicated upon seeing the crescent of Ramadan: "O Allah, bring it over us with security, faith, safety and peace," the scholars added.
"Four words carry humane and individual principles through which happiness of individuals and communities can be achieved. Indeed, security is an oasis that no human being can do without it, nor can any community. Likewise, faith overflows during this holy month with giving, tolerance, Quran recitation and pursuit of knowledge through lessons, while safety is that of the body and soul being relieved from all everyday life challenges that may hider them. As for peace, it is truly the greatest blessing that Islam has brought, the aim being to achieve happiness of mankind. Thus, in Muslims community, there is no offensive speech, no violence, no terrorism and no extremism," the scholars underlined.
It is, indeed, such a beautiful life that is free from all those ill-manners and sins that are, unfortunately, sweeping our modern societies, the scholars added.
On another note, the scholars hailed the comprehensive renaissance that they witnessed in the UAE, one that they described as being in race with time. They also lauded the means of worship that have been provided by the UAE wise leadership to help people perform acts of worship in excellence during the sacred month. The scholars cited the mosques that feature cleanliness and the aesthetics of Islamic architecture, highlighting the keen interest and passion shown by people to go to mosques, sincerely supplicating to late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may his soul rest in peace, who initiated the programme of the guest scholars. 
Such generous initiative was continued by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him, and his Crown Prince, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, being good successors to a good predecessor, the scholars pointed out.
Following the lecture, the scholars gathered for Iftar in Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque after paying tributes at the tomb of the founding leader, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. They recited Surat Al Fatiha and prayed to Allah, the Almighty, to show mercy on him and admit him at the highest places of Paradise in reward to his development efforts and giving that extended to all four corners of the world. As a result of that, the UAE has become today amongst the most beautiful countries and the world's largest humanitarian donor, they said.
On another level, the scholars visited Al Karama Oasis and read Surat Al Fatiha on the souls of the nation's martyrs who sacrificed their souls in the way truth, patriotism, honour and relief of the oppressed in the brotherly countries. They prayed to Allah, the Most Merciful, to make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets, the steadfast affirmers of truth and the martyrs.
The scholars further highlighted the bravery and heroism of the UAE Armed Forces in the fields of Jihad for the sake of protecting the legitimate rights and defending the causes of the Arab nation, which is currently facing a great deal of critical challenges.
The scholars concluded by contemplating to Allah, the Almighty, to protect the UAE leadership and people as well as all the Arab and Muslim countries from the evil of oppressors and the crimes of extremist and terrorist groups that only aim to destabilise the world and distort the white image of Islam.
 













