addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In continuity of the wise approach and the generous tradition of the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, the scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, arrived in the UAE to participate in reviving the nights of the holy month of Ramadan with lessons and lectures in accordance with a new programme. The programme is held under the stewardship of HH Sheikh Masour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, and implemented by Awqaf. 
Twenty five scholars arrived in Abu Dhabi International Airport from Jordan, Indonesia, Egypt, Morocco, Saudi Arabia and other countries. They were received in the VIP lounge in the airport by Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, and a number of senior officials from the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and Awqaf.
Dr al Kaabi welcomed the scholars in their second country, thanking them for accepting the invitation to participate in the Programme of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, during the blessed month of Ramadan. Dr al Kaabi praised, on the occasion, such annual generous tradition of HH the President to host a group of elite scholars from all over the world, following in approach of the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in piece, who initiated such tradition.
Dr al Kaabi further valued highly efforts and directives by HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan to execute the Programme of the Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, hailing the efforts by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs in this regard.
"This honourable and generous initiative by HH the UAE President allows the public to meet with the scholars in mosques, institutions and Majlises in order to benefit from their knowledge and religious advises during the holy month of Ramadan, being a month of Quran, recitation, contemplation and seeking further knowledge in religion," said Dr al Kaabi.
Dr al Kaabi pointed out that the programme of the guest scholars sees a continuous development in all its aspects by Awqaf and the Ministry of Presidential Affairs. Such developments, this year, include Majalis al Khair (gatherings of goodness), Quran Majlises, and the Chair of Virtues of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh. Improvements also include conducting scholastic workshops in the Fiqh (jurisprudence) of modern financial transactions, Fatwa issuance in latest issues, matters relating to fasting in the modern age, scientific approach in combatting extremist ideology as well as scientific means that are conducive to achieve family stability, Dr al Kaabi concluded.  
For their part, the scholars expressed their great appreciation to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and the UAE wise leadership for their hospitality. They further hailed the legacy of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul, praying to Allah to protect his righteous sons and the UAE leadership and people against every evil.
 













