addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In a press conference held by Awqaf, Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, delivered a speech in which he greeted the audience and representatives of newspapers and media outlets in the UAE.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi said, "With the approach of the holy month of Ramadan, Awqaf would like to extend heartfelt greetings to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates. We pray to Allah, the Most Exalted, to show mercy on the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may his soul rest in peace."
Dr al Kaabi further congratulated the UAE people, citizens and residents, as well as the whole world on the occasion of the blessed month, the month of Quran, Dhikr, kindness and giving, praying to Allah to bring the holy month with peace, happiness, and spiritual welfare to all the humanity.
Then Dr al Kaabi highlighted the key points that will be addressed in this year's press briefing, including: preparations for Ramadan, achievements during the first quarter of 2017 and preparations for this year's Hajj season.
 
Preparations for Ramadan
1-   Programme of scholars guests of HH the UAE President
Concerning the preparations for Ramadan, Dr al Kaabi first talked about the Programme of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President. In this regard, he explained that the UAE hosts this year 25 elite scholars from the Arab and Islamic countries as part of the Programme of the guest-scholars in Ramadan, which is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and implemented by Awqaf.
"Awqaf has prepared scholastic and preaching programmes that are consistent with this period of time and meet the requirements of around 300 government and non-government entities and institutions that requested to allocate a number of lectures to be given to their members of staff. In addition to that, lessons and lectures will be conducted in mosques in participation of Awqaf's scholars," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
He further explained that the programme committee at Awqaf has scheduled 10 main events for the guest scholars that are aimed at reviving the days and nights of the holy month with religious advices and scientific lessons, activating the initiatives of the Year of Giving through lectures, seminars, workshops, evenings and similar activities, promoting values of citizenship and social harmony, and instilling values of tolerance and peaceful co-existence in the community.
Other objectives of the programmes underlined by Dr al Kaabi included raising awareness amongst the Emirati families and protecting them, fortifying the young generations ideologically and strengthening their intellectual immunity, enhancing the role of Emirati women and empowering their leading efforts in the society, and promoting the values of happiness and positivity amongst all members of the community.
On the new features of this year's programme, Dr al Kaabi highlighted:
1- Majalis Al Khair (Gatherings of goodness): 19 seminars will be held in the Majlises across the country that will address the concept of citizenship, building a good citizen, objectives and fruits of religious tolerance and the role of family in the community.
2- Quran Majlises: gatherings specialised in interpreting selected Suras that will be held daily in a number of mosques.
3- Chair of Virtues of Prophet Muhammad pbuh: the chair will be dedicated to explaining the virtues of the Prophet Muhammad on daily basis in various mosques.
4- Scholastic workshops: five scholastic workshops will be held by elite number of the guest scholars. Workshops will address such topics as Fiqh (jurisprudence) of modern financial transactions, Fatwa issuance in latest issues, matters relating to fasting in the modern age, scientific approach in combatting extremist ideology as well as scientific means that are conducive to achieve family stability.
Moreover, the guest scholars will also participate in various UAE radio and TV shows, Dr al Kaabi added.
Concerning daily lessons in mosques, gatherings and society institutions, Dr al Kaabi explained that around thirty topics were chosen for the guest scholars and Awqaf's preachers to discuss and enrich in accordance with the key points of focus defined by Awqaf. Around 300 of such lessons will be delivered across the UAE, he added.
 
2-   The Holy Quran
On another level, the second point highlighted by Dr al Kaabi as regards to the preparations for Ramadan was related to the holy Quran. On this account, Dr al Kaabi stressed that Quran memorisation centres will continue their programmes of Quran memorisation and recitation. The centres are set to complete recitation of 46000 Khitmas (whole Quran) on the soul of late Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest his soul, as a gesture of loyalty to him and allegiance to the UAE wise leadership.
Worth mentioning, the number of students at the holy Quran memorisation centres across the country reach 49,700 students.
Dr al Kaabi added that Awqaf will also hold a ceremony to honour the winners in the holy Quran contest during Ramadan. Winners will be honoured in eleven different categories that include seven memorising categories, the best memorisation centre at the UAE level, talented voices, Quranic stories, inmates of punitive and correctional institutions, people of determination (with special needs) and the category of students of non-Awqaf memorisation centres.
 
3-   Readiness of mosques
The third point highlighted by Dr al Kaabi regarding the preparation for Ramadan was the preparedness of mosques. On this matter, Dr al Kaabi said that 38 mosques were opened across the country in preparation for the blessed month. In addition to that, 252 mosques were furnished and another 1250 were renovated.
 
4-   Official Fatwa Centre
The fourth part of the preparations was related to the UAE Official Fatwa Centre. About these preparations, Dr al Kaabi said a number of measures were taken including:
-  The centre has taken all proactive measures that will enable it to answer the expected high flow of queries from the public during the month. It will receive people's questions from 8am to 8pm daily on three shifts.
- In cooperation with the department of research, a booklet about Fatwas and rules of fasting was issued. The booklet will be included with the Quranic Kit that will be distributed on the fasting people.
- Given the great interest by the public in the centre's services, priority will be given to Fatwa via phone and SMS. Thus, all Muftis will be dedicated to answer the questions of the local Fatwa seekers.
- The timing for Muftis at the centre will remain as it is (8am to 8pm) and will not be reduced similar to other sectors. This is based on the belief of Awqaf's higher management in the significance of keeping this service available for the public during their most active hours so as to help answering their religious queries.
- On Friday and Saturday, the services of the official Fatwa centre will remain available and it will receive people's queries through SMS on 2535.
 
Achievements in first quarter of 2017
Happiness indicators and results 
On the achievements related to happiness indicators, Dr al Kaabi emphasised that on 20 March 2017, Awqaf celebrated the International Day of Happiness, marking it with several initiatives that were aimed to achieve the community's happiness. This, he said, was in line with the UAE wise leadership's keen interest in making giving and acts of kindness as sources of happiness for the Emirati people to become the happiest people in the world. As such, the UAE has ranked amongst the top countries in the World's happiness indicator in 2016 and came first as a destination for living for the Arab youth.
"In order to realise the government's vision in the happiness indicator, Awqaf has incorporated in its strategic plan a number of objectives like creating smart systems with the aim of touching people's hearts with happiness. One such innovative system is the smart mosques initiative that has become a global initiative amongst a group of Emirati initiatives recognised worldwide, as testified during the recent government summit in Dubai," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
As a result, Awqaf added a new success to its achievements by winning the first place at the GCC countries level in the second edition of Abdullatif Al Fozan Award for Islamic Mosque Architecture. HH Prince Khalid Al Faisal, Emir of the Mecca Region, honoured Awqaf for its Sheikha Fatima Bint Batti Mosque in Al Ain, Dr al Kaabi added. 
Another achievement highlighted by Dr al Kaabi was Awqaf's ranking first in the Mohammed bin Rashid Government Excellence Award in the category of social service provision and the category of health and safety.
"Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre also has introduced a service that is aimed at bringing happiness to Fatwa seekers and is based on the Fiqh of facilitation and moderation, while at the same time abiding by Islam's rulings, in addition to the Hujjaj Happiness centre which will be addressed later," Dr al Kaabi further underlined.
These continuous and growing achievements were crowned by the honouring of Awqaf by the President of Sudan in recognition of its outstanding efforts and initiatives aimed at protecting the moderate religious discourse and enhancing it in accordance with the principles of Islam, taking into consideration the national, regional and international developments, said Dr al Kaabi.
All such successes and awards were the fruits of efforts by the male and female work teams at Awqaf and their keen interest in promoting its level, executing its plans and programmes that are aimed at serving the happiness of the community, Dr al Kaabi added.
 
Initial indicators and results of the "Year of Giving"
Concerning the moves taken by Awqaf in response to the "Year of Giving" initiative, Dr al Kaabi listed a number of initiatives launched by Awqaf, including:
- Awqaf launched a unified plan for scholastic lessons in 2017, with the (scholastic Majlises of Goodness) scheduled to be conducted in the most important mosques across the UAE. These include four weekly gatherings after the Maghrib prayer; every Sunday a lesson on Fiqh, every Monday a lesson on Tafseer (interpretation), every Tuesday a lesson on Prophetic Hadith and its sciences, and every Wednesday a lesson on the Prophet's life. Those lessons are given based on a well thought-out scientific methodology so as to offer a comprehensive information to the public.
- Instant response to the directives of the UAE wise leadership to support the international efforts aimed at relieving the people of Somalia. To this effect, Awqaf donated AED one million to the UAE Red Crescent Authority, thus becoming the first public entity to respond to the campaign.
- Awqaf supported Al Faraj Fund with AED 1.5 million that would be dedicated for paying off the debts of indigent prisoners, as a gesture of mercy towards them and their families. The funds will also be used to pay off blood money.
- Providing the schools of people with special needs (People of Determination) with buses for the students' transportation, in addition to supporting the Autism Centre in Umm Al Quwain by furnishing all its classes with means of learning and rehabilitation.
- Fifty mosques were constructed as part of Mafhas al Qatah project, part of them are already in operation and the other part under construction.
- Awqaf signed a memorandum of understanding with Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange with the aim of activating the charitable Waqf service at the level of securities listed in the Abu Dhabi Securities so as to enable the investors who wish to give their securities as endowment to apply for transferring the ownership of such securities to the designated Waqf account under the care of Awqaf. Such financial transaction is considered as the latest Waqf procedure in the modern Economy of Endowments. Another similar MoU will be signed with the Dubai Financial Market before the end of the moth.
- Awqaf signed a memorandum of understanding with Mohammed bin Rashid Holy Quran Printing Centre for printing 10 million copies of the holy Quran in different sizes and with high quality and resolution. Those Qurans will be distributed locally and internationally too.
- With the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan, Awqaf will launch a big Waqf campaign which was prepared under the motto "Waqf al Khair Campaign".
 
Awqaf's preparations for this year's Hajj season
Regarding Awqaf's preparations for the 1438 AH/ 2017 AD Hajj season, Dr al Kaabi shed light on a number of the entity's efforts in this respect, the foremost of which was the launch of the electronic Hajj registration system.
The system was launched in line with the directives of the UAE wise leadership and in implementation of the smart government initiative. It allows those who are interested in performing Hajj to register throughout Awqaf's branches across the country, the Islamic Affairs and Endowment Department in Sharjah, the centres affiliated with the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai, Tas'heel offices at the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation, the Integrated Government Services Centres "Tamm" in Al Dhafra, and all the accredited Hajj operators, Dr al Kaabi explained.
Registration in the system started on March 12 until April 13, 2017. Number of applicants registered reached around 17500, hence required a precise mechanism for approving around 6228 applicants out of the total number, being the UAE quota of pilgrims for this season, Dr al Kaabi added.
According to the approving mechanism, 80 per cent of the Hajj permits issued this season, have been approved for the first time male and female applicants who are 60 years of age and above. Preference has been given to seniors and people of determination (people with special needs), their assistants, Mahrams (caretakers) and assistants of patients. Male and female applicants who are 59 years of age and below were also given preference based on priority of registration in the system (first-come, first-served), he further clarified.
Dr al Kaabi underlined the objectives of the Hajj electronic system, which he said was aimed at ensuring the provision of the best services to pilgrims with the minimum competitive costs possible, laying down regulations and standards for complying with the defined quota of pilgrims (6228) in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Hajj in Saudi Arabia, and allowing the opportunity for those who did not perform Hajj before to do so.
Given the big number of applicants which greatly exceeds the UAE's quota, the excess applications will be given priority in the next seasons, in order to preserve the applicants' rights. Awqaf apologised for who applied for voluntary Hajj and thanked them for their altruism, allowing the opportunity for those who did not perform Hajj before, Dr al Kaabi concluded. 
 













