addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Starting from the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan, Awqaf launched its "Waqf al Kahir" (Endowment for giving) campaign. The move is in response to the "Year of Giving" initiative by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, to make 2017 the year of goodness that will not only engulf the UAE community but also overflow to all the human beings who will never be deprived from the benevolence of Emiratis and their ever graceful giving.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said, "Waqf (endowment) is amongst the best forms of charity for it features continuity. So long as the Waqf is on-going and people are benefiting from it, its reward will continue during the endower's life and after their demise. For this reason, the Messenger of Allah pbuh described Waqf as a continuing charity."
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "As Islam intends for Muslims ease, it facilitated many gateways for acts of kindness and taught people how to accumulate good deeds in their account with Allah, the Almighty, Who does not allow to be lost the reward of the doers of good even as much as an atom's weight."
"Following such facilitation approach, the UAE wise leadership made subject for the people of goodness means of charitable donations. To this effect, it enforced laws and measures to regulate Waqf affairs and tasked Awqaf with the mission of developing and investing endowment proceeds for the best interest of the community in the present and in the future," Dr al Kaabi pointed out.
Dr al Kaabi further explained that Waqf in the modern age includes all forms of donations such as real estates, stocks, shops, trades, cars and assets, whether transferable or non-transferable.
"All such assets will be transformed at Awqaf into permanent endowments that can be invested and developed. The proceeds of these endowments will be used to help the eligible beneficiaries through various disbursement channels that are targeted by Islamic endowments. Those channels include Wqaf for orphans and needy people, Waqf for righteousness and piety that promotes Takaful (solidarity), and Waqf for social welfare and community service that provides care for the elderly, widows, the needy, children and youths. Other disbursement channels also include Waqf for knowledge that is dedicated to support students, educational institutions and scientific research for the benefit of people, Waqf for Islamic affairs related expenses, such as mosque construction and maintenance, Quran printing, supporting Quran memorisation centres, promoting Quran and its sciences, Waqf for healthcare and Waqf Suqya Al Maa (water distribution)," Dr al Kaabi added.
Other Waqf projects highlighted by Dr al Kaabi included Waqf for kinship and Waqf for loyalty to the father or the mother, which consists of an endowment contribution to honour the father or mother in their life or after death. All these resources, he added, are being organised and managed by Awqaf for the best interests of endowers, community and beneficiaries.
"From this perspective, Awqaf has launched the "Waqf Al Khair" campaign that is aimed at instilling the tradition of Waqf and supporting the marsh of giving with a view to develop the community in the above mentioned domains," Dr al Kaabi underlined, adding that the logo for this year's campaign features three golden intertwined circles, representing the continuity of acts of charity whose reward continues in this world and the Hereafter.
Worth mentioning, Awqaf will organise several events during Ramadan in order to give the public more insights into the objectives of this campaign, Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













