addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In the second day of the holy month of Ramadan, the scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, participated in 34 various lectures. The lectures are part of the Scholars' Programme which is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and organised by Awqaf. Majalis al Khair (gatherings of goodness) are set to commence today in a number of locations across the UAE, including "Majlis al Marfaa" in Mirfa, Al Dhafra district in Abu Dhabi. At this Majlis, the guest scholars will deliver a lecture under the title "Patriotism: An innate instinct and a need". Dr Khalifa al Dhaheri, executive director of Al Mawta centre will also participate in the lecture.
In their lectures yesterday, the guest scholars urged people to seize the opportunity in the holy month of Ramadan, the month of Quran, and revive its days and nights by reading the holy Quran, contemplating on its meanings and reciting its verses beautifully. The scholars further explained the virtues of Quran recitation and its aspects, bringing as evidence the following Hadith: It was narrated that Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, reported that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "The person who recites the Quran and he is proficient with it, will be with the noble righteous scribes (in Heaven). And a person who exerts himself to learn the Quran by heart, and recites it with great difficulty, will have a double reward."
Clarifying the meanings of this Hadith, the scholars said that the Prophet pbuh explained that the reward for those who exert extra efforts to recite the holy Quran, finding difficulty with it as a result inability to read or memorise, or any other reason that may cause faltering while reading it, then they will attain double reward. Thus, such people should not give up Quran recitation because of these kinds of difficulties. Rather, they should show determination and continue in their efforts.
"Ramadan, the month of Quran" was also a point of focus in yesterday's lectures. In this regard, the scholars referred to the beginning of Quran revelation in the cave of Hiraa where the Prophet pbuh used to go for worship. Thereafter, the Prophet pbuh continued to receive the revelations for thirteen years in Mecca. Those Suras are called Meccan Suras. Over the following ten years, the Prophet received the Suras in Medina, which were called the Medinan Suras, the scholars said.
They further highlighted that the Suras that were revealed in Mecca were characterised with content that focused on the Oneness of Allah, prohibiting worship of other deities, barring bad conducts and thereby calling for adherence to good ethics. Meanwhile, the scholars added, the Medinan Suras addressed the lawful and unlawful matters, family affairs, nation building, humane and inter-country relationships as well as Islam's openness to other cultures.
Thus, Muslims renew such meanings, values and Quranic knowledge by reciting the holy Quran frequently during the month of Ramadan, which Allah, the Most Exalted, described as "the month of Ramadhan [is that] in which was revealed the Quran, a guidance for the people and clear proofs of guidance and criterion," the scholars emphasised.
Interpreting this Aya, the scholars talked about the Quranic signs of guidance and criterion, reminding Muslims that the Prophet's ethics represented the holy Quran in all its details, goals and objectives. They urged for reviving mosques and houses with Quran recitation, especially recitation with pondering upon its meaning for Allah, the Almighty, has sent down the Quran for people to reflect upon its verses, adhere to its commands and embrace its ethics.
Those lectures were hosted by the Federal Police Department in Sharjah, the Police Department in Dhafra, Abu Dhabi mosques and the National Rehabilitation Centre.
On another level, Dr Muna Fahmi delivered a lecture for women in Al Karama Mosque in Shakhboot city under the title "Insights into Surat al Kahf" as part of the Quran Majlises. Meanwhile, in Al Aleem Mosque in Khalifa City, Dr Awatef al Nabawi delivered a lecture to women on the Prophet's virtues "Chair of virtues". Moreover, Al Aziz Mosque in Al Reem Island, hosted a lecture for Dr Zaid Abdul Rahman Hussein who also addressed the Prophet's virtues on the "chair of virtues".     
 













