addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, on Monday, Ramadan 3, visited the National Archive in Abu Dhabi where they learned about the cultural heritage of the UAE through the books on heritage, the library and heritage sites that were documented by the Archive. They also had the opportunity to observe historical documentaries about the UAE's establishment and development.
Meanwhile, a number of ministries and government entities hosted a group of scholars who delivered lectures about the worship of fasting. In their lectures, the scholars underlined that fasting is a secret between the fasting servant and their Lord, the Knowing of the unseen, who only can know the truth about it. For this reason, Allah, the Almighty, promised those who observe fasting with great recompense, the scholars pointed out, recalling as evidence the Prophet's Hadith in which he said that Allah, the Almighty, says, "The fast is for Me. So I will reward (the fasting person) for it." This Hadith, the scholars added, illustrates the reward prepared by the Most Exalted for those who observe fasting sincerely for the sake of Allah.
Moreover, the Quran Majlises, scholastic Majlises and the Chair of Virtues of Prophet Muhammad continue to be held on daily basis in accordance with the scholars' programme, which is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs, organised and implemented by Awqaf.
As part of the programme, the Abu Dhabi Statistics Centre hosted a lecture by Dr Hameed Ushaq, a guest scholar, under the title "Waqf is a continuation of life" in which he interpreted the Prophet's pbuh Hadith about the continuing charity, stressing that Waqf (endowment) is amongst the best sustainable acts of charity. As long as the community is benefiting from the charitable Waqf, its reward will be given to the endower in this life and the next, he explained.
Dr Humaid Ushaq then talked about the various forms of acts of goodness that the Prophet pbuh advocated, which in the modern age became amongst the broadest humanitarian and cultural means of development, especially in the areas of knowledge and public interest. Waqf proceeds are now being used in projects like bridge construction, digging wells, building hospitals, and similar community developmental projects, he underlined.
On another level, the daily Quran Majlises saw lectures by a number of scholars, including one by Dr Abdul Rahman Abbas Salman who gave insights into Surat Yusuf in the Sheikh Hazza Mosque in Abu Dhabi. Furthermore, another lecture was delivered by Dr Muna Fihmi Mohammed Ghaitas in Al Karama Mosque in Shakhboot City for women under the same title "Insights into Surat Yusuf".
Meanwhile, the "Chair of Virtues of Prophet Muhammad", started to attract a growing number of women who were interested in further knowing about the virtues of the Prophet pbuh and his ethical, social and humane qualities. As such, Dr Awatef al Nabawi continued delivering lectures in Al Aleem Mosque in Khalifa city for women, enlightening them about several aspects of the personality of the greatest Prophet who is a role model for the world.
Likewise, Dr Zaid Abdul Rahman Hussein continued his lectures about the merits of the Prophet pbuh in Al Aziz Mosque at Al Reem Island.
 













