addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah Who sent down to His servants the holy Book as a guiding light. We also praise Him for making His remembrance easy for us. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He urges His servants to embrace every noble ethics. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Sublime, in line with His orders: "and this [Quran] is a Book We have revealed [which is] blessed, so follow it and fear Allah that you may receive mercy." (Al-Anaam: 155).
O Observers of Fast,
May Allah, the Ultimate Sovereign, accept your fasting and your prayers at night. May Allah also accept your good deeds and your Dhikr (remembrance of Allah) and recitation of the holy Quran. Indeed, the holy Quran is the revelation of the Almighty Allah. The Exalted is He sent it down to His Messenger Muhammad pbuh as a source of mercy and happiness for the whole world. Allah, the Most Gracious says, "Ta, Ha. We have not sent down to you the Quran that you be distressed." (Taha: 1-2).
Reciting the holy Quran is conducive to expand chests, impart tranquillity to the souls and assurance to the hearts. This is emphasised by Allah, the Almighty, as He says, "those who have believed and whose hearts are assured by the remembrance of Allah. Unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah hearts are assured." (Ar-Raad: 28).
O Believers,
This leads us to ponder about the strong bond between Ramadan and the holy Quran. In this regard, we need to remember that the holy Quran is a blessed Book as Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "[This is] a blessed Book which We have revealed to you, [O Muhammad], that they might reflect upon its verses and that those of understanding would be reminded." (Sad: 29).
Likewise, Ramadan is a blessed month too. Allah's wisdom decreed that He revealed the holy Quran in one of the most blessed nights in Ramadan, namely Laylat Al Qadr (the Night of Decree). Allah, the Almighty, says, "indeed, We sent it down during a blessed night." (Ad-Dukhan: 3).
On their own merits, fasting and the Quran are the best means of Taqwa (piety and fear of Allah). About the holy Quran, Allah, the Most Sublime, says "this is the Book about which there is no doubt, a guidance for those conscious of Allah." (Al-Baqara: 2). Furthermore, on the purpose of fasting, Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "O you who have believed, decreed upon you is fasting as it was decreed upon those before you that you may become righteous." (Al-Baqara: 183).
Thus, whoever observes fasting in Ramadan, recites the Quran, reflects upon its meanings and adheres to its rulings, then, by Allah's grace, will achieve Taqwa and, ultimately, happiness in this world and the Hereafter. This is because righteous people will be cherish their Lord's pleasure and great rewards as Allah the Almighty says,  "indeed, for the righteous with their Lord are the Gardens of Pleasure." (Al-Qalam: 34).
Having known the purpose of fasting, it is good, dear fasting people, to advise one other on the merits of reciting the holy Quran. First and foremost, we read Quran because Allah the Almighty, ordered us to do so. The Most High says, "so recite what is easy from it." (Al-Muzzammil: 20).
Furthermore, Allah, the Most Beneficent, promised those who are diligent in reciting the Quran verses beautifully and reflecting on their meanings with generous rewards. In this regard, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Whoever recites a letter from the Book of Allah, he will be credited with a good deed, and a good deed gets a ten-fold reward. I do not say that Alif-Lam-Mim is one letter, but Alif is a letter, Lam is a letter and Mim is a letter."
 
Amongst the other virtues of reciting the holy Quran is that when a Muslim recites its verses, Allah imparts tranquillity and mercy on them. This is because with Quran hearts get healed, worries relieved and sorrows eased. An illustration of this can be seen in this Aya: "and We send down of the Quran that which is healing and mercy for the believers." (Al-Israa: 82).
O People of Quran,
Let us now advise one another about why we should strive in reciting the holy Quran in Ramadan. We do so because Quran and fasting have the common merit of interceding on behalf of those who are devoted to them on the Day of Resurrection. Thus, the fasting believer who also recites Quran will, by Allah's Favour, attain two intercessors.
On this matter, The Prophet pbuh said, "Fasting and the Quran will intercede for the servant of Allah on the Day of Resurrection. Fasting will say, 'O Lord, I prevented him from food and drink during the day, so allow me to intercede for him.' The Quran will say, 'O Lord, I prevented him from sleeping during the night, so allow me to intercede for him.' And they will be allowed to intercede."
For this reason, the companions, may Allah be pleased with them, as well as the people of knowledge and righteousness used to devote a great amount of their time in Ramadan for reciting the Quran.
On another level, in Ramadan, Muslims should show diligence in reading the holy Quran with measure in line with Allah's orders:  "and recite the Quran with measured recitation." (Al-Muzzammil: 4). As such, one should pay attention to correct their recitation, follow the rules of Tajweed, listen to the correct way of recitation and learn the rules of proficient recitation. Allah, the Most Exalted says, "so when the Quran is recited, then listen to it and pay attention that you may receive mercy." (Al-Araaf: 204).
One other thing that the fasting Muslim should ensure to do in Ramadan is to attend Quran memorisation sessions in mosques and Quran memorisation centres. Through such sessions one can learn the correct way to recite Quran and Tajweed, thus recitation become easier to them. Truly, the virtues of investing children's time in learning, memorising and understanding the Quran are tremendous. Allah, the Almighty, rewards both the children who read Quran and their parents abundantly.
On this account, the Prophet pbuh said, "The Quran will meet its companion on the Day of Resurrection... It will say to him, 'I am your companion the Quran, who kept you thirsty on hot days and kept you awake at night. Every merchant benefits from his business and today you will benefit from your good deeds.' He will be given dominion in his right hand and eternity in his left, and there will be placed on his head a crown of dignity, and his parents will be clothed with priceless garments the like of which have never been seen in this world. They will say: 'Why have we been clothed with this?' It will be said: 'Because your son used to recite Quran.' Then it will be said to him (to the reader of Quran), 'Recite and ascend through the levels of Paradise and its rooms.' He will go on ascending as long as he recites, whether quickly or in measured recitation."
Having this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the All-Giving, to grant us success to recite His Book at night and in the early morning as befits His satisfaction. May Allah also bless us with the intercession of Quran and fasting.
O Allah, please guide us all to obey You and obey Your Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those You have commanded us to obey in line with Your orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon,
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
 
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most Sublime and Exalted.
O Observers of Fasting, 
Please be aware that the benefits of Quran recitation are countless and its positive effects on its reader are tremendous. Through reciting Allah's words one's behaviour gets refined and manners heightened. Quran also contribute to enhancing one's Arabic language. Indeed, those who adhere to the teachings of Quran and avoid the acts it prohibits, will embrace the character of Quran.
It was narrated that when Sayeda Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her, was asked about the character of the Prophet pbuh she said, "His character was the Quran." Thus, we should take example of the Messenger of Allah pbuh in line with Allah's orders: "there has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often." (Al-Ahzab: 21). 
This leads us to advise each other on how to lay out a plan for reading the holy Quran during the blessed month of Ramadan. There are precious times that we need to dedicate for reading the words of Allah. Those are between Adhan (call for prayer) and Iqama (second call for prayer) and after obligatory prayers. During these times, each of us should read as much Quran as possible and be steadfast on doing so.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. He pbuh said: "For every one who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we ask You that You make the great Quran the spring of our hearts, and the light of our breasts. O Lord, we beseech You to teach us from the Quran that which we did not know and make us remember of it that which we forgot.
May Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, enlighten our homes with the holy Quran and allow fasting and the Quran to intercede for us on the Day of Resurrection.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, for indeed You are the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, and all of the noble Companions.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah, "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 
 
 













