addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of the preparations for the holy month of Ramadan, Awqaf announced the opening of 38 new mosques in several locations across the UAE.
In a statement to Al Bayan newspaper today, Awqaf said that its Official Fatwa Centre has effected an emergency plan to receive the public's queries during the holy month.
Twenty four elite religious scholars from the Arab and Islamic worlds arrived in the UAE as part of the Programme of Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President.
Elaborating on the topic, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, announced that 38 new mosques have been opened in various locations in the UAE as part of the preparations for the sacred month of Ramadan. Moreover, 252 mosques have been furnished and another 1250 mosques renovated, he added.
"Awqaf's staff at all its sectors and departments will all be working on emergency during the holy month of Ramadan, the aim being to attend to the public's requirements in mosques, Quran memorisation centres and Ramadanic Majlises," Dr al Kaabi told Al Bayan, adding that Muftis will work on three shifts daily at the UAE Official Fatwa Centre. They will receive queries via phone and SMS from 8:00am to 8:00pm, seven days a week, he explained.
Dr al Kaabi further highlighted that a booklet on Fasting and its rules was issued in cooperation with the department of research. It is will be part of a Quranic kit that will be distributed to the fasting people.
Dr al Kaabi also underlined that Awqaf laid down 8 objectives for the Ramadanic events, including reviving the nights of the holy month with religious advises and scientific lessons; activating the initiatives of the "Year of Giving" through lectures, seminars, workshops and evenings, just to mention a few; boosting the values of citizenship and social solidarity, promoting values and principles of tolerance and peaceful co-existence in the community, raising awareness of the Emirati family and ensuring its harmony. The events are also aimed at ideologically fortifying the youths, strengthening intellectual immunity, enhancing the role of Emirati women and empowering its social contribution to the community as well as promoting the values of happiness and positivity, he added.
 
24 scholars from 11 countries
The list of elite scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, included 24 religious scholars from 11 countries around the world. They include 10 professors and Imams from Al Azhar mosque and university. Those are: the Undersecretary of Islamic and Arabic Studies, Dr Hasan Kamal Hasan al Qasabi, Dr Rabei Jumaa Mohammed al Ghafeer, Assistant Professor,  Dr Abdul Rahman Abbas Salman Abdul Rahman, Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Faith and Philosophy in Asool Ed-Deen (Fundamentals of Religion) University, Prof Dr Adel Mahmoud Mohammed Suroor, Professor of Linguistics at the Faculty of Arabic, Dr Ahmad Mustafa Moawadh, Professor of Fiqh (Jurisprudence) at the Faculty of Shariaa and Law, Dr Shaaban Mohammed Ali Kafafi,  Head of the Department of Rhetoric in the Faculty of Arabic Language, Ahmed Ibrahim al Sayyed al Bahnasi, Religious Researcher at Al Azhar, Professor Dr Abdul Maqsood Abdul Hameed Mahmood, Professor of Islamic History and Civilisation, Dr Muna Fihmi Gheitas, Head of the Department of Literature in the Faculty of Islamic and Arabic Studies (girls), and Dr Awqatif al Nabawi Abdullah, Assistant Professor of Literature in the Faculty of Humanities, (girls).
Amongst the outstanding figures this year are also three scholars from Morocco: Husniya Soona, Professor of Rehabilitation Education, Dr Hameed Ushaq, Assistant Director at the Dar Al Hadith Al Hasaniya in Rabat and Dr Mohammed Mubarak, Professor of High Education in the Faculty of Shariaa and Law. The list of scholars also includes two from Jordan who are: Hassan Awad Ibrahim Abu Arqoob, Public Relations Manager at the Department of Iftaa, and scholar Dr Hamdi Mohammed Murad. Moreover, two scholars joined from India, who are: Abdul Samad Samadani, Director of Mohammed Iqbal Humanitarian Academy and Dean of the Institute of Engineering, division of the sciences of civilisation, and Dr Mohammed Abdul Hakeem al Kandi, President of the University of Islamic Culture Centre.
Other elite scholars on the list also include: Sheikh Osama Bin Saeed Mansi al Hasani al Maliki, Teacher of Islamic Education in Saudi Arabia, the scholar Dr Abdul Malik al Saadi, Zaid bin Yahya al Adani, Executive Director of An-Noor Centre for Studies and Research in Yemen, Mohammed Fadel Wild Mohammed al Ameen, Chairman of the University of Islamic Sciences in Mauritania, Dr Mukhlis Mohammed Hanafi, Executive Director of Quranic Studies Centre in Indonesia, Mohammed Soutari, Mufti of Shkodra in Albania, and Dr Mohammed Bashar Arafat, President of the Islamic Affairs Council of Maryland. 
 













