addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, stressed that under the wise directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, the UAE was, and will continue to be, a minaret that shines with tolerance and peace within its regional and international surroundings.
HH Sheikh Mohammed's statement came while receiving yesterday at al Bateen Palace the scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President. The scholars are hosted annually during the month of Ramadan to participate in reviving its nights as part of the programme of scholars that is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and organised by Awqaf.
HH Sheikh Mohamed welcomed the guest scholars and exchanged greetings with them on the occasion of the holy month of Ramadan, praying to Allah, the Almighty, to return it to the Arab and Islamic nations with further blessings and prosperity.
HH also exchanged greetings on the occasion, in presence of HH Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, with representative of the Awqaf, Ministry of Justice, the Department of Judiciary in Abu Dhabi and Zayed House for Islamic Culture.
Meanwhile, Dr Nidal al Tunaiji, Director General of Zayed House for Islamic Culture, presented HH Sheikh Mohammed copies of the Quran interpretation into thirteen international languages. The interpretations are aimed at promoting knowledge of new Muslims about the holy Quran and its verses and help them to understand the meanings, values and noble objectives of Islam.
 
Responsibility
On another note, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed welcomed the visiting delegations and exchanged amicable talks with them. He also welcomed the scholars in the UAE as "their second home country", wishing them success in fulfilling their great mission in promoting awareness, preaching, offering advices and guidance as well as educating Muslims about their religion and life affairs.
HH further expressed his confidence that the scholars can live up to the responsibility of reviving the nights of the holy month to the fullest thanks to their praiseworthy effort aimed at enlightening people with regards to their religion and Fiqh and promoting their knowledge.
"The UAE's humane mission is based on the great mission of Islam, which came to dispel the darkness of fanaticism, oppression and ignorance, spreading instead the noblest values of love, tolerance, co-existence, justice and equality, in addition to opening minds into knowledge and sciences," HH Sheikh Mohammed pointed out.
Sheikh Mohammed further urged the scholars to continue assuming their commendable role during the sacred month and thereafter in raising awareness of Arabs and Muslims, especially the youths, about the correct principles of Islam that are based on moderation, tolerance, respect and acceptance of the other as well as deserting violence, fanaticism and extremism.
"This sacred month is a precious opportunity to reflect the true image of Islam and inculcate its established essence that is based on spreading peace and enhancing peaceful co-existence on basis of mutual respect amongst civilisations, cultures and religions. We, in the UAE, are determined to continue fulfilling our responsibility in cooperation with our Arab and Muslim brethren as well as with support and efforts of our honourable scholars in highlighting the bright civilised image of Islam. We should all form an impenetrable fort in the face of the groups of darkness and terrorism and all those who might be induced to tamper with the sacredness of Islam and distort its tolerant image or those misguided attempts to associate extremism and terrorism with Islam and Muslims," Sheikh Mohammed concluded.
Later, HH listened to an explanation from Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, about the events of the programme of scholar, guests of HH the UAE President, including religious and social lectures that the scholars will deliver in mosques and other gatherings in the UAE about Ramadan, its virtues and the tolerant principles of Islam.
 
Charitable Initiatives
For their parts, the scholars lauded the philanthropic and humanitarian activities accomplished by the UAE, benefiting Muslims in several countries and communities, praying to Allah, the Almighty, to bring back this holy month to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, with good health, wellness and blessings. They also contemplated to Allah to continue blessing the UAE with safety and security and to show mercy and forgiveness on the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan and admit him to His Paradise.
The scholars further praised the hospitality accorded to them, stressing that it reflects the great care and appreciation the UAE gives to knowledge and scholars. They thanked HH Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed for his support to Muslim scholars and for hosting religious, intellectual and scientific lectures at his Majlis. Such lectures are conducive to enrich the Muslims' mind and promote their culture and knowledge, they concluded.
 













