addthis_pub="newawqaf";















A large number of people, parents and youths, turned out yesterday at the Majlis Al Marfaa in Dhafra area to attend a Ramadanic seminar titled "Patriotism: an innate instinct and a religious need". The seminar was overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and organised by Awqaf. Lecturers in the seminar included, scholar-guest of HH the UAE President, Dr Ahmad Mustafa Moawadh, Professor of Fiqh (Jurisprudence) at the Faculty of Shariaa and Law in Al Azhar University, and researcher Dr Khalifa al Dhaheri, Executive Director of Al Mawta Centre.
The seminar commenced with a speech for Mr. Khamis Mohammed al Hamadi, Supervisor of the Majlis, in which he congratulated, on the occasion of the holy month of Ramadan,  HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and UAE leadership and people. He also prayed to Allah, the Almighty, to show His mercy on the founding leader, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.
Al Hamadi welcomed the guest scholars and the audience, both citizens and media representatives, hailing the Diwan of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, for the care given to the Majlises at residential quarters and their mission in the community.
The seminar then began with a speech for Dr Ahmad Mustafa Moawadh in which he extended greetings of the Grand Imam of Al Azhar to the UAE leadership and community. He then addressed the concept of citizenship in Islam, explaining that love of the nation is an instinct, yet a religious duty.
Dr Moawadh recalled, in this regard, examples of the life of the righteous ancestors in positive citizenship, the Messenger of Allah pbuh being the role model for them. He underlined that when the Prophet pbuh was forced to emigrate from Mecca to Medina, he bade it farewell saying, "O Allah (bear witness), you are the most beloved land to Allah and you are the most beloved land to me. Had your people not driven me out of you, I would have never left you."
When the Messenger of Allah pbuh reached to Medina, his new home, he established therein the culture of love of, loyalty to and protection of the homeland. He instilled the values of discharging one's responsibility towards the nation, cherishing its rights, and fulfilling their individual and social duties. Those included stability and security that the nation gives to its righteous citizens, Dr Moawadh added.
He further highlighted that love of the homeland is an instinct that Allah, the Almighty, placed it even in the hearts of animals and birds. So, no wonder for it to be part of the human beings who were blessed with good nature and graceful emotions, he clarified.
Dr Moawadh recalled a story as an example on homesickness and longing to the homeland, saying, "Aseel al Hadhali came to the Messenger of Allah pbuh from Mecca. The Prophet pbuh asked him, 'How did you leave Mecca, O Aseel?' The question imparted a feeling of homesickness and sorrow to Asil, so he said, 'O Messenger of Allah! Its roads are good, its trees flourishing, its fruits abundant...' The man elaborated so much in describing Mecca, its roads, springs and places, so the Messenger of Allah pbuh said to him, 'O Aseel! Do not increase our longing to Mecca."
More to the point, the researcher brought evidences from the holy Quran on the standing of the homeland and how Allah, the Almighty, criticised those who drive people out of their homes and force them to migrate. Allah the Almighty says, "and [recall] when We took your covenant, [saying], 'Do not shed each other's blood or evict one another from your homes.' Then you acknowledged [this] while you were witnessing."
In this Aya, there is an indication to man's love to their country and that forcing them to leave it is a crime. Thus, we derive from this Aya the great value of our homeland and the great responsibility lying on our shoulders to protect it, al Moawadh concluded. 
For his part, researcher Khalifa al Dhaheri talked about the UAE's efforts in entrenching the patriotic values in the community, recalling a number of articles from the Document of Conduct and Ethics of the Emirati Citizen, such as complying with honesty and honour in all daily dealings, and restricting to the Islamic values and religious tolerance.
Other ethics he highlighted from the document included adopting temperance and tolerance with respect to religion and all its aspects of life and avoid extremism and extravagance, consolidating genuine customs and traditions, being careful to define the Emirati customs and traditions and highlight their genuine traditions to people of other nationalities with respect to form and substance as well as being loyal to the UAE's wise leadership.
He stressed that the UAE prudent leadership is a blessing from Allah as they have turned the country into a civilised and modern one that attracts people from all around the world to live in an environment that is featured with astounding development, stability and prosperity at all levels.
"Citizenship is a heritage of principles, values and traditions that are common amongst the individuals of a country. Such heritage contributes to shaping the character of the citizen. Meanwhile, citizenship is the fully responsible membership of the individual in their country and the consequent duties and responsibilities of that membership. From this perspective, the document of Conduct and Ethics of the Emirati Citizen was articulated and approved by the Cabinet in 2012," al Dhaheri added.
He further underlined that the document was aimed at nurturing an Emirati generation that is aware of their responsibilities and duties towards their homeland, family and community. The document also includes the most important values and skills that Emirati citizens should embrace, he added, underlining that citizenship values stem from the pure spring of Islam's honourable values, ethics, humane principles, including unity, solidarity, preserving environment, social compassion and harmony.
Al Dhaheri emphasised that since the old ages and deep in history, Muslim scholars realised the significance of building the nation and that loyalty to one's nation in no way contradicted with their loyalty to their religion. Indeed, he said, without a stable homeland there would be no stable religion; without a flourishing nation, the religion would not flourish, adding that loyalty to the nation is part of faith, which is the essence of the nature of righteous human beings.
Al Dhaheri then brought an example of the Messenger of Allah pbuh and his companion's longing to their homeland. Truly, the Prophet pbuh instilled the culture of loyalty and affiliation to the nation when he reached to Medina as immigrant and therein established the values of belonging to the homeland.
At that time, Bilal became ill, remembering Mecca with all its landmarks and valleys and longed to return to it. Bilal, when his fever deserted him, would recite: "Would that I could stay overnight in A valley wherein I would be Surrounded by Idhkhir and Jalil (kinds of good smelling grass). Would that one day I could Drink the water of the Majanna, and would that (The two mountains) Shama and Tafil would appear to me!" When Sayida Aisha told the Prophet pbuh about him, he said, "O Allah! Make us love Medina as we love Mecca or even more than that. O Allah! Make the climate of Medina suitable for us, and give blessings in our Saa and our Mudd (measures symbolising food)," Al Dhaeri added.
In such an instinct homesickness, religious scholars saw that homeland is a religious need. For example, Al Jahiz wrote an important thesis about love of the nation. In fact, homeland is the incubator and the stability that are conducive to help human beings to achieve their aspirations and enable them to build their innovative powers. It strengthens the values of cultural co-existence and social peace, said Al Dhaheri.
Thus, if such an innate instinct becomes distorted, the authenticity would definitely be lost, and the same applies to honesty amongst people, Al Dhaheri underlined, noting that Arabs said, "If you wish to know the good nature of a man, then look into his longing to his homeland."
He recalled a story from the Arabic literature about Moawiya Ibn Abu Sufyan and his wife who although she came from Najd to live in the palaces of Syria, yet after a while she became homesick and started crying and reciting poetry in praising her homeland. Such was the example of the loyalty of Arabs to their nation, he said.
Al Dhaheri concluded by addressing the youths in particular and called them to be aware of the poisonous messages that are being circulated via social media channels through some corruptors, urging them to also be a role model in their love to their country, protect its achievements and strive to realise its future aspirations.
Concluding the seminar, Mr. Mohammad Ahmed al Mazrouei, Director of Awqaf's branch in al Dhafra, honoured the lecturers and the supervisor of Majlis al Marfaa by awarding them shields and appreciation certificates.
Worth mentioning, Mohammed Bilaajer al Rumaithi Majlis in al Samha area hosted an evening lecture for Dr Shaaban Mohamed Ali Kafafi, a guest scholar, in which he talked about the "Confidentiality of Meetings", praising the initiative of the Diwan of HH the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi to establish and take care of those gatherings in residential quarters, allowing parents and youngsters to meet and discuss their religious and worldly affairs. 
 













