addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Majlises at residential quarters across the UAE are hosting a group of elite scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, to participate in lectures and evening seminars that will see the participation of society members from all walks of life. The scholars will address such topics as the standing of homeland in Islam, virtues of fasting, cultural co-existence, harmony and good conducts.
To this effect, al Bateen Mosque in Abu Dhabi hosted a valuable lecture delivered by Dr Hasan Kamal al Qasabi, Undersecretary of and Professor of Fiqh (Jurisprudence) in the Faculty of Islamic and Arabic Studies in al Azhar University in Cairo. The lecture saw a high turn out from the public.
In his lecture that carried the title "With the Messenger of Allah in Ramadan," Dr al Qasabi talked about the approach of facilitation and easiness in worship based on the Hadith about the Prophet pbuh, which said, "Whenever the Prophet pbuh was given an option between two things, he used to select the easier of the tow as long as it was not sinful."
Indeed, the Messenger of Allah, did not make it hard for the traveller, the sick person or those who have a valid reason not to observe fasting. Furthermore, he pbuh used to urge Muslims to hasten the breaking of the fast at sunset and delay the Suhoor till dawn, al Qasbi explained.
Concerning the promotion of the "Year of Giving" initiative which was launched by Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, the lecturer brought evidences from the Prophetic Hadith on generosity and the love of acts of charity and goodness in Ramadan. He explained that the Messenger of Allah pbuh used to become more generous in Ramadan when Jibril (Gabriel) puh met him every night to revise the Quran with him.
The lecturer further hailed the generosity of the UAE people and leadership following the example of the Prophet pbuh in love of acts of charity and giving. As a result, he said, the UAE has become at the top of the world in relieving and humanitarian domains.
Worth mentioning, the main topic that will be addressed today by other scholars in mosques and other community institutions is "With the Messenger in Ramadan". Meanwhile, yesterday's topic for the lectures was "Ramadan: Repentance and turning back to Allah", in which the scholars called for investing time during the holy month in performing acts of goodness that draw them closer to their Lord in line with His saying, "Indeed, Allah loves those who are constantly repentant and loves those who purify themselves."
On another level, the Suheil Mohammed Al Marar Majlis in Khalifa City in Abu Dhabi hosted a lecture for Dr Shaaban Mohammed Ali Kafafi, Head of Rhetoric in the Faculty of Arabic Language in al Azhar University, Zagazig.
In his lecture, Kafafi talked about "Patriotism as an innate instinct and a religious need". He highlighted the great standing of one's nation, stressing that all individuals are responsible for ensuring the glory of their country, protect its achievements and uncover the conspiracies of those who are ungrateful to their homeland and the extremists.  
 













