addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of the Programme of Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and in activation of the Majalis al Khair (gatherings of goodness) initiative, Al Ain Majlises in the residential quarters hosted a group of the honourable scholars who delivered lectures on a number of topics that are consistent with the sentiments of the holy month of Ramadan. The Scholars' programme is overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and organised by Awqaf.
In this connection, Dr Rabie Jumaa Mohammed al Ghafir, Assistant Professor in the Faculty of Islamic and Arabic Studies in Al Azhar - Cairo, delivered a lecture under the title "Patriotism: an innate instinct and a religious need" at Majlis Umm Ghafa. Meanwhile, Dr Hasan Kamal Hasan Al Qasabi, Undersecretary of the Faculty of Islamic and Arabic Studies in Al Azhar - Cairo, delivered a lecture on the same topic at the al Mahmoud gathering.
The two lecturers addressed the concept of citizenship in Islam, explaining that love of the nation is an instinct, yet a religious duty. They recalled, examples of the life of the righteous ancestors in positive citizenship, following in this regard in steps of the Messenger of Allah pbuh being the role model for them.
They explained that the Prophet pubh and his companions loved their homeland Mecca greatly, and when Allah, the Almighty, made a new home for them in Medina, they loved it too. With their humane feelings towards Medina and their noble aspirations, they built a city featuring security, justice and equality amongst members of the community from all walks of life, Muslims and non-Muslims, the lecturers added.
On another level, Dr Hassan Awqad Ibrahim Abu Arqoob, Public Relations and International Cooperation Manager at the Iftaa Department in Jordan, delivered a lecture at Muflih Aayedh al Ahbabi Majlis in which he addressed the topic of drugs fighting and the mutual responsibility amongst family, educational institutions, media outlets and mosques in nurturing religious culture and strengthening ethical conducts in the minds and hearts of the young generations.
Meanwhile, at Mohammed Bakhit Al Ketbi gathering, Dr Hameed Ushaq, Assistant Director at the Dar Al Hadith Al Hasaniya in Rabat, participated in a seminar about social media channels and how to use them as positive communication means that do not get deceived by rumours nor do they promote fake statements that may harm the dignity of the nation and individuals.
On the same topic, Dr Abdul Rahman Abbas Salman, Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Faith and Philosophy in Asool Ed-Deen (Fundamentals of Religion) University in Assiut, gave a lecture at the Gen. M. Obeid al Kaabi Majlis. He highlighted the role of control played by such institutions as family and other competent entities in guiding the children towards the optimum use of such modern technology in a manner that enhances patriotic and religious values as well as authentic customs and traditions. These institutions also play important role in promoting the children's awareness so that they do not fall victims of any rumours that are aimed at harming the nation, its people, achievements, aspirations or initiatives. They further protect them from insulting others, Dr Salman added, stressing that such communication channels are blessings if used in appropriate way and invested in promoting awareness and knowledge and strengthening bonds amongst human beings.
Furthermore, at the Al Mutaarrid Al Ghifari Majlis, Sheikh Osama Bin Saeed al Hasani, teacher of Islamic Education in Saudi Arabia, delivered a lecture about "Family as an intellectual immunity". Sheikh al Hasani underlined that family is considered as the primary incubator for the children's education, starting from early childhood until they have finished high school. Such role by the parents may as well continue as long as they lived, provided the parents have been well versed in religion and other cultural domains, he explained.
Parents' success in playing such role is also subject to their leading a marriage life based on affection and mercy in line with Islam's teachings. In fact, all youngsters' deviations and problems result primarily from weak and incoherent marital relationships. As a result, children would live without any parental protection or guidance, which ultimately leads to unpleasant consequences, Sheikh al Hasani concluded.
 













