addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Awqaf's scholars, Muftis and researchers received the UAE Cabinet's resolution to establish the UAE Council for Fatwa with great interest and care, the latter being a comprehensive national initiative aimed at unifying the resources of Fatwa and regulate its issuance in the UAE in accordance with the Fiqh established principles and developments, according to which Fatwa issuance develops in all times and places.
Commenting on the occasion, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that in the first week of Ramadan 1438 AH, Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre answered 16393 questions, addressing various topics, including worships, transactions and women-specific Fatwas.
The number of queries received via phone reached 14469, while those received via SMS totalled at 1924. Out of the phone queries, 6875 questions were related to worships, 1263 addressed transactions, 555 questions about family affairs, 1541 on women-specific queries and 2670 general queries, Dr al Kaabi explained.
Worth mentioning, all proactive measures were taken to ensure the preparedness of the official Fatwa centre for the holy month in which the centre expected queries to flow in large numbers. To this effect, the centre opened its communication channels to interact with the public from 8am to 8pm on three shifts daily, Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Dr al Kaabi added that other preparations for the holy month included also issuing a booklet about Fasting and its rules in coordination with the department of research. The booklet was included in the Quranic kit that will distributed to the fasting people.
Dr al Kaabi highlighted that in light of the great interest of the public in the services of the Official Fatwa Centre, priority was given to phone and SMS Fatwas. All Muftis have been dedicated to answering the public's questions, he added, stressing that Muftis working hours at the Centre will continue to be from 8am to 8pm without any change. Working hours will not be reduced as in other sectors. This is due to the higher management's belief in the importance of the continuity of offering the service to the public during their most vital times, answering their questions about matters that need religious opinion, Dr al Kaabi added.
The Official Fatwa Centre will open on weekends and will continue to offer it services to the Fatwa seekers through SMS to 2535, Dr al Kaabi concluded.
 













