addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah Who ordered us to be good to our neighbours. He also made good neighbourliness amongst the most righteous characters. I bear witness that there is deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. He was the best of those who kept their promises and fulfilled their covenants. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah. Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al-Baqara: 281).
O Believers,
Please know that good neighbourliness and treating one's neighbour kindly is amongst the best of humane qualities, the greatest ethics of Islam and the authentic traditions of Arabs. The aspects and forms of good neighbourliness are many, of which are establishing a relationship that is based on peace and kindness with one's neighbours, observing their rights, fulfilling one's covenants and promises towards them and protecting the borders of one's land, just to mention a few.
This way, neighbours would feel safe in their lives, religion and families. Indeed, such qualities are of the signs of benevolence, honesty and perfection of faith as illustrated by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should treat his neighbour kindly."
More to the point, Islam made the relationship with one's neighbour as an exemplification whether someone has done right or bad. It was narrated in this regard that a man said to the Prophet (pbuh), "How would I know when I do well or bad?" The Prophet (pbuh) said, "If you heard your neighbours say you did well, then you did well. And if you heard them say you did badly, then you did badly."
Furthermore, being benevolent to neighbours is one of the causes of happiness, for the good neighbours will live in peace of mind next to each other. Our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "Four things are from happiness," of them he mentioned a good neighbour. 
O Servants of Allah,
Please also know that Islam has prohibited Muslims from hurting their neighbours, whether being individuals or countries. This was emphasised by the Messenger of Allah pbuh as he said, "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day should not hurt (or insult) his neighbour." He also said, "By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe!" It was said, "Who is that, O Allah's Messenger pbuh?" He said, "That person whose neighbour does not feel safe from his evil."
In this sense, amongst the evils of a neighbour is to transgress his neighbour and his properties, meddle in his personal affairs, spy on him and uncover his secrets, or promote thoughts that may lead to his instability. Truly, such acts are injustice committed upon the earth without right and corruption whose doer will never thrive nor will they succeed in their evil endeavours. About them Allah, the Most Exalted says, "indeed, Allah does not amend the work of corrupters." (Yunus: 81).
Another form of harming one's neighbour is by showing loyalty to his enemies, hosting such traitors who weave conspiracies against him, support terrorist and extremist groups, and hiding those who are fleeing from justice and wanted by law. Such practices indicate denial of all the noble principles and values and, thus, should incur severe punishment against the perpetrator.
An illustration of this can be seen in this Hadith in which the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Whoever innovates in it (Medina) a heresy or commits a sin, or gives shelter to such an innovator in it will incur the curse of Allah, the angels, and all the people."
Truly, such evil neighbours deserve the curse because they have plotted conspiracies against secure communities, chosen the path of corruption and gone astray. Such people would distort the reputation of their country by providing shelter to those who disperse their poisonous ideologies in private and in public, seeking to destroy their countries by means of their own hands.
Undoubtedly, such approach involves betrayal to one's own people and neighbours too. It proves unfaithfulness towards their covenants and disloyalty towards their homeland as well as corruption and ultimate loss. Allah, the Almighty, described such people as losers. The Most High says, "who break the covenant of Allah after contracting it and sever that which Allah has ordered to be joined and cause corruption on earth. It is those who are the losers." (Al-Baqara: 27).
Truly, Allah, the Exalted is He, ordered us to protect the interests of our neighbours, keep the inviolability of our brethren, protect the resources of our homeland and fulfil our covenants. The Exalted and Sublime says, "and fulfil the covenant of Allah when you have taken it, [O believers], and do not break oaths after their confirmation while you have made Allah, over you, a witness. Indeed, Allah knows what you do." (An-Nahl: 91).
Moreover, Allah, the Almighty, warned us that the consequences of evil schemes would only turn onto their plotters. The Most Wise says, "but the evil plot does not encompass except its own people." (Fatir: 43). Ultimately, all the deeds that such people do will become as dust dispersed for, no doubt, good deeds that benefit people are better and more enduring. The All-High says, "as for the foam, it vanishes, [being] cast off; but as for that which benefits the people, it remains on the earth." (Ar-Raad: 17).
Certainly, truth will eventually prevail no matter how long it takes and falsehood will definitely wane as evidenced in this Aya, "indeed is falsehood, [by nature], ever bound to depart." (Al-Israa: 81).
O Observers of Fasting,
Allah, the Almighty, has blessed us in the UAE with a wise leadership and astute government that respects its neighbours and never cause harm to its brethren. In fact, all the people around the world testify to its generosity and magnanimity, patience and correct decisions. No wonder because this is its mission and conviction; its heritage that it inherited form its founding leaders and nurtured it in the minds and hearts of its sons and daughters.
Those qualities stemmed from the religious and humanitarian role it plays by extending helping had to all people around the world, guided in this by the advocacies of our Master Muhammad pbuh who said, "The most beloved to Allah amongst people are those who are most beneficial to others."
From this perspective, the UAE was keenly interested in boosting cooperation with its brothers in the GCC countries. To this effect, it faced along with them tough challenges, the aim being to cement their stability. In this way, the UAE sacrificed from its wealth and the pure blood of its sons with the aim of ensuring harmony and solidarity of the Gulf countries and their unity. This is in line with Allah's orders: "and hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided." (Al Imran: 103).
Understanding these facts, the UAE people, both citizens and residents, rally behind their wise leadership in a row as though they are a single structure joined firmly. They support their leadership the therapeutic decisions it takes that are aimed at protecting its brothers and neighbours from any harm that may involve their countries, properties, religion or interests.
Indeed, this is in line with the commandments of Allah, the Most Exalted, for He says, "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority amongst you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
Having this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the Almighty, to guide us all to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey.
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
O Worshipers,
Please be aware that Islam has called for building healthy relationships amongst nations and individuals and urged them to cooperate for their best interests, the aim being to achieve prosperity and welfare, fend off evil and avoid bloodshed. Therefore, whoever deviates from such path by igniting Fitnah and cheating people, will be striving throughout the land to cause corruption therein.
What more, by so doing, they will be severing ties of their kinship and abandoning their neighbours. And, no doubt, they will ultimately earn the blame and bear the burdens of such evil deeds in this world and the Hereafter. About them, Allah, the Almighty, says, "so would you perhaps, if you turned away, cause corruption on earth and sever your [ties of] relationship?" (Muhammad: 22).
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the Most Sublime, says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
O Allah, we implore to you to beautify us with good manners and help us to be truthful and fulfilling to the rights of others. Indeed, You are the Lord of the Worlds.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us. 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
 
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 
 













