addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf organised a qualitative symposium titled "UAE addressing terrorism... Religious grounds and national efforts" on Monday, Ramadan 10, at Jumeirah Etihad Towers Hotel in Abu Dhabi. The seminar was overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and attended by HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Bayyah, President of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies, HE Sheikha Lubna al Qasimi, Minister of State for Tolerance, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman and Secretary General of the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies, the Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and a large host of scholars, researchers, representatives of institutions, academies and concerned entities.
The symposium opened with a speech for Bin Bayyah in which he highlighted the judicious vision of the UAE prudent leadership and its wise approach in dealing with extremism, fanatic currents, terrorism and its ideological and financial resources as well as their deviated conceptions that are inconsistent with Islam. He further underlined the dangerous risk of taking the religious texts out of their conceptual frame and employing them in the service of whims and foreign thoughts and practices.
Bin Bayyah then stressed that the efforts by the UAE and its forums, especially the Ministry of Tolerance and Awqaf, are indeed intellectual barriers to combat the Kharijites of the modern age. Such efforts exemplifies the cultural front that was led by Abdullah Ibn Abbas in the first century of Islam against the then Kharijites (rebels) who revolted against the authority of the Caliph on the grounds that "judgement belongs to Allah alone", Bin Bayyah explained, stressing that priorities in our age should be arranged in accordance with those defined by the Messenger of Allah pbuh, namely security first then health and then people's need for food.
In this regard the Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever amongst you wakes up in the morning secured in his dwelling, healthy in his body, having his food for the day, then it is as if the world has been gathered for him (owned the entire world)," Bin Bayyah explained, underlining that there is no value for healthy bodies or religion, nor is there a meaning for life or happiness had security not been guaranteed for people and communities. Indeed, ensuring security is the role that the official government plays, Bin Bayyah concluded.
Brought to the stage, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, delivered the keynote of the seminar in which welcomed the audience saying, "Under the umbrella of our wise leadership headed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, in these blessed days of the holy month of Ramadan, and on the land of tolerance, moderation and humane advancement; I would like to welcome HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Bahyyah, President of the Forum for Peace Promoting Peace, and HE Sheikha Lubna al Qasimi, Minister of State for Tolerance."
"I would also like to welcome the elite professors of science, intellect, critics and analytics, as well as the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, who will enrich this symposium with firm religious grounds to combatting terrorism. Such grounds have become common amongst all the countries of the civilised world," Dr al Kaabi added.
"Today, everyone is paying the taxes of modern technology, for as long as the cyberspace continues to be open without any controls or smart censorship, terrorism will continue to have the opportunity to hit at any place around the world, trying to spread fear and chaos. Such terrorism is aimed at impeding cultural advancement and weakening cooperation bridges amongst nations and peoples of the world," Dr al Kaabi highlighted.
Thus, he pointed out, international concerted efforts and open initiatives are required to fight such terrorism. A good example on this is the intellectual forums that are being organised by the official entities in the UAE in participation of regional and international institutions. Those forums are based on the approach of moderation and tolerance, the aim being to dry the resources of extremism and terrorism. On top of such institutions that discharged their responsibilities in combatting those treacherous terrorist currents comes Al Azhar and Awqaf, in addition to several intellectual institutions and forums that adopt our same approach of exchanging opinions, issuing clear religious rulings and taking wise and firm stances against all that which may distort the pure image of Islam, threaten the security of our safe Muslim communities or hinder their progress and prosperity, Dr al Kaabi concluded.
Dr al Kaabi then called to stage HH Sheikha Lubna al Qasimi who delivered a speech in which she welcomed the audience and then said, "It gives me the pleasure to participate in this seminar being held under the title 'UAE addressing terrorism', and I would like to thank all those are working at Awqaf for their sincere efforts and keen endeavours in order to instil the values of tolerance and moderation in the community. I wish all speakers and participants continuous success, hoping they will come out with significant recommendations that will be conducive to reinforce the approach of moderation in the face of fanaticism and terrorism, as well as promote the principles of tolerance as opposed to violence, racism and hatred." 
"The UAE leadership and people embody the values of tolerance, solidarity, brotherhood and coherence. The reason is that the UAE is established based upon firm ethics of mutual respect, understanding, dialogue and cooperation as well as rejection of all forms of terrorism, violence and extremism. It embraces more than 200 nationalities that are living in dignity and peace, work with appreciation and respect, and interact in harmony and concord," Sheikh Lubna added.
"The UAE is keenly interested in promoting the values of tolerance and peace in combatting extremism and terrorism in line with directives of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and the Crown prince of Abu Dhabi," Sheikh Lubna stressed. 
"The world today, dear audience, is going through critical and very delicate conditions. Terrorism has become a global plague that destroys the foundations of patriotism, tear down social fabric, threatens national and regional security, and ultimately threatening the international security and safety. From this perspective, the UAE senses its patriotic responsibility, in addition to its commitment towards its global responsibility along with the international community. It is fully aware of the challenges that the world is facing today as a result of violence, extremism and bigotry. Thus, it did not spare any efforts in fighting terrorism in all its forms and aspects," HH Sheikh Lubna further highlighted.
She continued saying, "The UAE has countered, and is still countering, the extremist and racist ideology by further entrenching the values of tolerance, peaceful co-existence and solidarity. To this effect, it took quick and effective steps to diminish the phenomenon of terrorism through its efforts to disseminate and promote the moderate religious discourse which is conducive to debut terrorism, radicalism and sectarianism, in addition to the global humanitarian initiatives that the UAE launches."
"Moreover, on one hand, the UAE did not fail to consider developing the religious and media discourses, and on the other hand putting in place preventive measures to prevent the extremist ideology from instigating terrorist activities. In this regard, the UAE adopted effective policies and procedures at political, security, economic and social levels. It also doubled its efforts to implement the necessary steps and measures to develop the mechanism of mutual work aimed at confronting the phenomenon of terrorism and fanatical ideology," Sheikh Lubna underscored.
Of such measures, Sheikha Lubna highlighted:
1-   Issuing "Law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters" in 2006.
2-   Forming the "National Committee to Combat Terrorism" in 2009.
3-   Creating "Hedayah, the International Centre of Excellence for Countering Violent Extremism" in 2013. Hedayah is the first independent research institution that supports dialogue, research and training in the way of combatting extremism, she explained.
4-   Issuing anti-terrorism law in 2014 to fight terrorist crimes.
5-   Establishing the Muslim Council of Elders in 2014, which is an independent international body that is aimed at promoting peace in Muslim communities.
6-   Hosting the "Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Communities" in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
7-   Enacting Anti-Discrimination and Hatred Law in 2015. The law features articles that are aimed at ensuring equality amongst members of the community, criminalising discrimination between individuals or groups based on religion, sect, race, colour or ethnic grounds.
8-   Launching the "Sawab Centre - United against Extremism", a joint UAE-US initiative that is aimed at optimising the use of social media channels to correct misconceptions.
9-   In 2016, creating the position of the "Minister of State for Tolerance" and approving a national programme for tolerance, the aim being to ensure the sustainability of the values of tolerance, solidarity, respect of cultural diversity, acceptance of others and rejection of hatred, racism and bigotry.
10-  Launching the "International Institute for Tolerance and Mohammed bin Rashid Award for Tolerance" in 2016. The institute along with the award will work on supporting intellectual, cultural and media production, transforming the value of tolerance into sustainability organisational work that returns with welfare to the people of the Arab region. They are also aimed at providing Arab young people with intellectual fortification and nurturing professional and distinguished young leaders who will instil tolerance as ideology, value and behaviour, in addition to honouring the symbols of tolerance in categories of human intellect, literary creativity and aesthetic arts.
Elaborating on the topic, Sheikha Lubna stressed that combating violence, extremism and terrorism fundamentally depends on promoting culture, intellect and awareness, supporting dialogue amongst nationalities, religions and cultures, formulating legislations and laws that are capable of criminalising all thoughts that stimulate bigotry, hatred, extremism and racism as well as restricting its spread, drying its resources and countering organisations and parties that generate them.
"We are in dire need, today, as HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid previously said, for an intellectual reconstruction that re-establishes the values of ideological openness, diversity, and acceptance of others' viewpoints, whether intellectual, cultural, or religious," Sheikha Lubna underlined.
Sheikha Lubna concluded with expressing thanks to the organisers of the symposium and the participants too, extending her wishes of success to all.
On another level, the seminar discussed six working papers, including "The Evidentiary approach of extremist groups from religious resources - the holy Quran" which was delivered by Dr Abdul Hameed Ushaq, "The Evidentiary Approach of extremist groups from the Prophetic Sunna (traditions)" by Dr Hamdi Mohammad Murad, "The role of family in combating terrorism" by Dr Awatif al Nabawi, and "Cyber Terrorism: concept, types and ways of combating" by Dr Mohammad Bashar Arafat. The four speakers are from amongst the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President.
The other two papers discussed "Applied study on how terrorism can access modern technology" which was delivered by Dr Maqsood Kruse, Executive Director of Hedaya Centre in Abu Dhabi, and "UAE's counter extremism efforts" which was delivered by HE Omar Habtour al Derei, Director of the UAE Official Fatwa Centre.
Concluding the symposium, the convening members made the following recommendations:
- The participants underlined that the fundamentalist methodology of the established scholars is a rigorous disciplined one that is based on complex equation, consisting of three dimensions: Partial evidence, Total evidence and context. Thus, Shariaa is looked at as a whole one image where all parts are complementing each other.
- The participants highlighted that one of the most important features of the evidentiary approach of extremist ideology is: destroying the total structure of Fiqh (jurisprudence) which originally balances between three fundamental elements: Shariaa in terms of texts and objectives, the interests and evils scheme, and taking into account the factors of time and place.
- The participants concluded that the corrupt inference of the terrorist ideology ignores a set of established rules while dealing with the religious texts, such as rules of collectiveness, replication, context, achieving the purpose, considering the results and total perspective.
- The participants recognised the significance of monitoring and tracking corrupt inferences and debuting them using evidences from the holy Quran and Sunna.
- The participants affirmed that assaulting the safe, vulnerable and non-combatant people, souls, properties, places of worship and the nation's assets and properties, is considered as (frightening), whether this was practiced by individuals, groups or countries. Islam prohibited frightening people and associated a severe punishment to it, treating it as "Hiraba" (unlawful warfare).
- The participants also highlighted the significance of encouraging family collaboration and dialogue, a matter which is conducive to nurture the principles of truthfulness in the minds and hearts of the children and protect them from intellectual and behavioural deviations. 
- The participants underscored the importance of promoting awareness of cyber terrorism as a dangerous plague threatening individuals and societies in the context of the modern globalisation.
- The participants stressed the need for intensifying awareness programmes that deals with training Imams and speakers of Islam on adapting to the international variations. It is also necessary to increase national programmes that are conducive to enhance their capability to counter extremist and terrorist groups.
- The participants noted that in addressing the phenomenon of terrorism, the UAE adopted a unified approach, whether at the level of individuals, groups or at the level of ideology and practices, for terrorism is a whole structure that cannot be divided into parts.
- The participants further stressed that the UAE's approach in combating terrorism is not a momentary or transitory one, but it is a strategic and firm approach, the aim being to cut the roots of terrorism and protect the generations from its dangers.
- The participants underlined the UAE's efforts in fighting terrorism at several levels; be it intellectual, cultural, in media outlets, educational or developmental.
- The participants also recommended laying down a strategic policy that works on promoting   awareness in a comprehensive and continuous manner, as well as a programmatic policy that continuously works on educating members of the community from all walks of life so as they can discharge the responsibility of supporting the nation in establishing a social security strategy.
 













