addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, addressed the topic of family cohesion as an everlasting virtue in Muslim community. The topic was discussed in the lectures that the scholars delivered at the hosting institutions in Madinat Zayed in al Dhafra, the Institute of Special Security Forces, Sabha Centre in Al Ain, the Emirates Heritage Club Theatre, Statistics Centre, the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs in Abu Dhabi, the Punitive and Correctional Institution and the National Rehabilitation Centre. 
In their lectures, the scholars highlighted the care given by Islam to family building, a building whose foundation is the covenant of Allah and whose charter begins from the minute the youths start thinking of engagement, having sincere intention to get married. The scholars also underlined the status of marriage contract in both Shariaa and law and the need for announcing such marriage in the community so that all its members become aware of the formation of a new Muslim family that will shoulder its religious and social responsibilities, including strengthening cohesion amongst communities, families and relatives.
The scholars further addressed the very beginning of the marriage process when the person starts thinking of getting married, the aim being to ensure a successful marital life full of affection and mercy, thus creating the ideal environment for a successful marriage that Allah, the Almighty, has urged for. In this sense, the scholars talked about choosing a good spouse from amongst the many choices available in the community. This was illustrated in this Hadith for the Prophet pbuh, "A woman is married for four things, i.e., her wealth, her family status, her beauty and her religion. So you should marry the religious woman (otherwise) you will be a losers," the scholars underlined, explaining that religiousness is the safest valve for a continuous respectable marriage relationship, after which one may consider other factors for more satisfaction.
The scholars then addressed the rights and duties of both husband and wife and the need for both of them to fulfil their obligations so that the family becomes a safe and merciful home for the children. This is also conducive to spread mutual respect amongst the relatives of both the spouses, the scholars added.
Ultimately, these are the scientific and practical methods for achieving family stability in Islam, the scholars clarified, adding that establishing a family is a blessing from Allah, the Most Exalted, bestowed upon men and women, one that brings happiness to them. In fact, Muslim community, in the modern age, is one of the most developing, stable and cohesive communities, they concluded.
On another level, as part of their events programme, several guest scholars visited hospitals and care houses to check on the wellbeing of patients, elderly people and the people of determination. The move came as part of a Ramadanic initiative under the motto "Plant hope!" Such initiative imparted a new spirit to those people that added to the atmosphere of Ramadan which is full of interaction, good deeds and upholding of ties of kinship.
 













