addthis_pub="newawqaf";















An evening titled "Youths: A responsibility and seriousness" stressed the need to activating the role of family, public interest institutions, schools, sport and cultural clubs in nurturing children and youths as well as protecting them from destructive ideologies. The evening, held at the Emirates Association for Social Development in Ras Al Khaimah yesterday, was overseen by the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and organised by Awqaf.
The speakers in the evening underlined that the UAE is a young country that embraces around 200 thousand youths and it established an experience that has become a role model for many countries in dealing with the young generation. In this regard, the speakers highlighted, the UAE has offered its youths several fields for excellence, innovation and continuous study and research, to engage thereafter in serving their homeland, armed with all the knowledge that enables them to assume their role to the possible best. The aim is to further boost the renaissance witnessed by the UAE at all levels, they added.
Amongst the speakers in the evening was Dr Abdul Rahman Abbas Salman, one of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him. In his speech, Dr Salman underlined that the UAE is a young country that depends on its youths who proved their excellence in all their positions.
Salman further explained that the responsibility of fortifying the youths, promoting their awareness and developing their minds and knowledge in order to combat the destructive ideologies of some deviated minds, lies in the hands of family, school, sports and cultural clubs, the public interest institutions and all media outlets. He pointed out that the UAE has succeeded in going further than other countries in training its young generation on the means of protection and usage of collective intellect in fighting such ideologies. It also succeeded in making them rally behind their wise leadership that, thanks to its wisdom, was able to create the awareness necessary for the youths, he added, stressing the importance of the continuity of such approach in cooperation with all the members of the society and its active institutions.
For his part, Harith Mohammed Al Madfaa, member of the Emirates Youth Council and General Coordinator of Sharjah Council, said that many countries started to benefit from UAE's experience in optimally investing the youth's ideas and energy. He underlined, in this regard, the creation of the Ministry of Youth and appointing HE Shama Bint Suhail al Mazrouei, being the youngest minister in the world, to lead the ministry. This was appreciated by several countries from all over the world, encouraging them to benefit from such an experience, he added.
The seminar also brought to the stage Khalaf Salim bin Anbar, General Director of the Emirates Association for Social Development, who affirmed that hosting such evening by the association contributes to enhancing awareness of the youths and helps in protecting and preparing them to engage in serving their homeland.
He also underscored that the association, like other public interest institutions, cooperates with all the entities in the UAE in order to conduct lectures, seminars and workshops that are conducive to benefit the Emirati community, especially the young generation, which receives great care from the UAE astute leadership.
On a related note, the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, addressed the topic of family cohesion in their lectures at the hosting institutions at Madinat Zayed in al Dhafra, the Institute of Special Security Forces, Sabha Centre in Al Ain, the Emirates Heritage Club Theatre, Statistics Centre, the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs in Abu Dhabi, the Punitive and Correctional Institution and the National Rehabilitation Centre. 
In their lectures, the scholars highlighted the care given by Islam to family building, a building whose foundation is the covenant of Allah and whose charter begins from the minute the youths start thinking of engagement, having sincere intention to get married. The scholars also underlined the status of marriage contract in both Shariaa and law and the need for announcing such marriage in the community so that all its members become aware of the formation of a new Muslim family that will shoulder its religious and social responsibilities, including strengthening cohesion amongst communities, families and relatives.
The scholars further addressed the very beginning of the marriage process when the person starts thinking of getting married, the aim being to ensure a successful marital life full of affection and mercy, thus creating the ideal environment for a successful marriage that Allah, the Almighty, has urged for.
They also discussed the topic of choosing a good spouse from amongst the many choices available in the community. This was illustrated in this Hadith for the Prophet pbuh, "A woman is married for four things, i.e., her wealth, her family status, her beauty and her religion. So you should marry the religious woman (otherwise) you will be a losers," the scholars underlined, explaining that religiousness is the safest valve for a continuous respectable marriage relationship, after which one may consider other factors for more satisfaction.
From this perspective, the scholars then addressed the rights and duties of both husband and wife and the need for both of them to fulfil their obligations so that the family becomes a safe and merciful home for the children. This is also conducive to spread mutual respect amongst the relatives of both the spouses, the scholars added.
Ultimately, the scholars clarified, these are the scientific and practical methods for achieving family stability in Islam, adding that establishing a family is a blessing from Allah, the Most Exalted, bestowed upon men and women, one that brings happiness to them. In fact, Muslim community, in the modern age, is one of the most developing, stable and cohesive communities, they concluded.
On another level, as part of their events programme, several guest scholars visited hospitals and care houses to check on the wellbeing of patients, elderly people and the people of determination. The move came as part of a Ramadanic initiative under the motto "Plant hope!" Such initiative imparted a new spirit to those people that added to the atmosphere of Ramadan which is full of interaction, good deeds and upholding of ties of kinship.
 
«Insights into Surat Al Anbiyaa»
Meanwhile, guest scholar Dr Muna Ghaitas, Head of the Department of Literature in the Faculty of Islamic Studies in Al Azhar University, continued her insights into the holy Quran for women, contemplating with them into Surat al Anbiyaa, which addresses the ethical approach for correction and change. This Sura talks about the qualities of the faithful believers as well as those of the unbelievers, she explained.
Dr Muna illustrated the qualities of the believers, clarifying that the main objective of the corrective message of the Prophet pbuh was instilling good conducts as he pbuh said, "Indeed, I was sent to perfect good manners." Thus, Dr Muna explained, entrenching noble ethics was the objective of all acts of worship enjoined by Allah, the Most Exalted, upon Muslims.
"For instance, prayer was prescribed to prohibit the human soul from immorality and wrongdoing, fasting for achieving Taqwa (piety or fear of Allah), and Zakat for promoting love, kindness and social compassion amongst people, for Allah, the Almighty, says, 'Take, [O, Muhammad], from their wealth a charity by which you purify them and cause them increase'," Dr Muna concluded. 
 













