addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, described the UAE as the "land of tolerance, co-existence and brotherly relationships", amongst all religions, those being shaded by the umbrella of the rule of law, justice respect of human beings and noble values under the leadership of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nayan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him.
Dr al Kaabi gave these statements when he delivered a speech during the Iftar banquet that was hosted by St. Antony Cathedral for Egyptian Orthodox Copts in Abu Dhabi. The Iftar was attended by Bishop Julius, the Personal Envoy of His Eminence Bishop Twadros II, Pope of Alexandria and Patriarch of St. Marks, to the Arabian Gulf region, Wael Jad, Egyptian Ambassador to UAE, priest Bishoy Fakhri and priest Abraham Farouk, the patrons of the cathedral, in addition to Yusuf Mohammed al Nuaimi, Advisor at the Ministry of Tolerance.
Present at the banquet were also representatives of Awqaf, Presidential Diwan and the Diwan of HH the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, as well as members of the Scientific Council, the Council of Egyptian businessmen and Egypt's Women Association.
In his speech, Dr al Kaabi explained that the UAE's wise leadership gives much attention and care to the places of worship across its good land. It also believes that performing acts of worship and religious rituals by followers of all religions is an established human right that people should exercise in safety and tranquillity under the rule of law, justice and respect of human being, Dr al Kaabi added.
"We are living peacefully on the UAE's giving land in line with the orders of Allah, the Most Exalted, without any extravagance or extremism. We do not carry any animosity towards others. On the contrary, we approach them with love, tolerance and brotherhood," said Dr al Kaabi, hailing Egypt's pro-Arab role as a unique example for co-existence, brotherly relationships and affection amongst its people, Muslims and Christians.
Dr al Kaabi concluded by expressing his thanks for the Cathedral in Abu Dhabi for being keenly interested in hosting this banquet on yearly basis, the aim being to strengthen the bonds of love and harmony between Muslims and Christians.
For his part, Bishop Julius, extended on behalf of His Eminence Bishop Tawadros II heartfelt greetings and congratulations to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Rule of Dubai, HH Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates, as well as to the UAE people on the occasion of the holy month of Ramadan.
Bishop Tawadros II further expressed his thanks and gratitude to the religious tolerance and care cherished by the members of the Egyptian Coptic Orthodox Cathedral and all Christians in the UAE. He pointed out that the St. Antonio Cathedral in Abu Dhabi is not just a place for worship, but also an example of love, tolerance and co-existence, underlining that this year's Iftar banquet coincided with the tenth anniversary of the Cathedral in Abu Dhabi.
Bishop Julius also highly valued the UAE's efforts in taking care of the residents living on its land, hailing the resolution issued by HH Sheikh Mansoor bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Presidential Affairs and Chairman of the Abu Dhabi Judicial Department, to set up a Personal Status and Inheritance Court for non-Muslims, as well as assigning the responsibility of family reform and guidance to the places of worship, with a view to achieve reconciliation and concord amongst the followers of each sect.  
 













