addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, affirmed that the costs of performing Hajj rituals for the coming season of 1438/2017 have seen a remarkable drop that reached to more than 50 per cent compared to last year's packages. Some Hajj operators introduced packages of as low cost as AED 9200, he added, citing the launch of the Hajj electronic system by Awqaf as the reason for such drops.
Dr al Kaabi's statements came during the 18th meeting of the Federal National Council that was held Tuesday 6th June at the FNC's headquarters.
In response to a question by member Marwan bin Ghleita about the mechanism followed by Awqaf in granting Hajj permits for the season 1438 AH/ 2017 AD, Dr al Kaabi said, "UAE's quota of pilgrims for the current season which was defined by the Saudi authorities is 6228 permits for citizens. Awqaf gave priority for the first time applicants who did not perform the Hajj rituals previously."
Dr al Kaabi explained that the electronic registration system is operated in 82 centres across the country. Applications are approved through the system in accordance with the set out criteria. Applicants can also use the system to choose their preferred Hajj operators and sign contracts that are being verified and approved by the Awqaf, Dr al Kaabi added.
 
Vaccination
Concerning vaccination services for pilgrims, Dr al Kaabi said, "There are 92 medical centres and clinics across the UAE that provide vaccination services for pilgrims. The number of registered citizens who wish to perform Hajj this year totalled at around 17655 citizens due to the unprecedentedly low packages and the simplicity of registration process. This entailed that organising the Hajj season should be done in a fair manner."
Dr al Kaabi further pointed out that while approving applications, priority was given to the elderly applicants who were 60 years of age and above. All applicants under this category have been approved, in addition to the people of determination (with special needs). Those who are 59 years of age and below and have not performed Hajj before were also given preference based on priority of registration in the system (first-come, first-served). A number of other factors were also taken into consideration, such as Mahrams (caretakers) of first-time women pilgrims, Dr al Kaabi added.
 
Hajj Applications
On a related note, Dr al Kaabi also highlighted that the number of first-time applicants were more than double the UAE's quota, hence the applications in excess would be given priority in the next Hajj seasons. He underlined that an operation room was formed, toll free numbers were designated and inspectors were appointed at the Hujjaj Happiness Centre. The committee studied 1670 applications and worked on realising the wishes of 829 pilgrims in accordance with a number of standards, said Dr al Kaabi, noting that after the completion of this year's Hajj season, the committee will submit a developmental plan for the following Hajj seasons that will consider all the observations recorded for the current season, the aim being to further elevate the level of services offered to the pilgrims in return of reasonable and affordable costs.
 
Repeating Hajj rituals
On another level, Dr al Kaabi urged those who have performed Hajj before to allow the opportunity for other citizens who did not have the opportunity to perform Hajj to do so in the coming seasons, underlining that those who perform Hajj this year may not be granted permit to perform Hajj in the next seasons, underscoring the existence of a clear vision for offering the highest level of services and the unprecedented support by the UAE wise leadership and government.
 













