addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Majils al Wathba South hosted Dr Hameed Ushaq, Assistant Director for scientific Research and Cooperation at the al Hadith Al Hasaniyah in Rabat and one of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him. Dr. Ushaq delivered an important lecture on the role that family plays in immunising children at intellectual, cultural and religious levels, as well as filling their leisure time with all that which is beneficial to them, their nation and community alike.
In his lecture, the lecturer pointed out that family is a school for education and promoting knowledge, one whose role starts before that of the official school, and continues along with and even after it. Thus, if the parents were well educated academically and religiously, then the youngsters will definitely cherish a graceful family and social atmosphere, he explained.
Then Dr. Ushaq talked about the school of life that our parents and grandparents experienced before the existence of today's modern schools and universities. At that school, they learned the Arab and Islamic authentic values and social ethics in a pure social instinct. As a result, they built an ideal civilisation for the future generations in the countryside and town too, Dr. Ushaq underlined, recalling a verse that said what it meant, "the youngsters amongst us grow on the values nurtured to them by their parents."
Scholar Ushaq further clarified that "the challenges that our sons and daughters are facing today are much bigger; being in the age of social media channels, satellite broadcast and globalisation that has become a fact of life amidst the geographic openness on the cities of the world and the social traditions of each country and community. Undoubtedly, the touristic channels that are available now should increase the knowledge of our generations about the advanced means of life so that they can benefit from the positive humane achievements and use them to boost our renaissance and prosperity, while maintaining their pride of their religion, customs and traditions. Thus, each man, woman, girl and boy should become ambassadors of their countries, protecting their reputation, and showing loyalty to their cultural, scientific and ethical heritage."
The lecturer then underscored the sufferings of the modern societies as a result of the waves of extremism and terrorism which, he stressed, have not come out from nowhere. Such extremism and terrorism were the bitter fruits of ignorant communities that were not fortified with family coherence nor correct Islamic and Arabic education. In other words, the discordant and strange branches stemmed out from such a tree that did not receive enough care, and thus the branches were easily broken in front of the winds of change and passing currents, Dr. Ushaq explained.
Concluding his lecture, Dr. Ushaq called upon fathers and mothers to increase their interaction with their family members, exchange advises, and apply restrictions on programmes and communication channels that may lure their sons and daughters and are not at all helpful for building their personalities and the sought out cultural communication bridges.  
 













