addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Amidst a big turnout of Emiratis, His Eminence Dr Ahmad Ibrahim al Sayed al Bahnasi, one of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, delivered a lecture titled "With the Prophet Pbuh in Ramadan" at Majlis Salim bin Kabina al Rashidi in al Nahda al Jadeeda area in Abu Dhabi.
At the beginning of the lecture, Mohammed Salim bin Kabina al Rashidi welcomed the guest scholar, praying to Allah to have mercy on the late founding father Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, who laid the foundations for such a tradition of hosting the scholars. HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the UAE President may Allah protect him, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, have followed such generous approach by hosting scholars from all over the world to enrich the holy month of Ramadan and allow the opportunity for people to benefit from their knowledge and inhale from the spirit of the sacred month, he added.
Al Rashidi further hailed the initiative to set up the Majlises in the residential quarters, stressing that those Majlises contribute to strengthening harmony and cooperation, promoting virtues amongst the residents and strengthening their love of giving, virtues, generosity and kindness. They also further nurtures the inherited traditions in the minds and souls of the generations, he added, calling upon the audience to make best use of the lecture.
Dr Ahmed al Bahnasi, then, delivered his lecture, highlighting the need to benefit from the spirit of the holy month in which good deeds are multiplied, as well as to follow the tradition of the Messenger of Allah pbuh, bringing evidence from the holy Quran; "There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent pattern for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day."
Dr al Bahnasi further underlined that, in Ramadan, the Messenger of Allah pbuh used to pray so much so that his feet would swell. He brought the following Hadith as evidence. It was narrated that Aisha, may Allah be pleased with said, "The Messenger of Allah pbuh used to offer prayer at night (for such a long time) that his feet used to crack. I said, 'O Allah's Messenger pbuh! Why do you do it since Allah has forgiven you your faults of the past and those to follow?' He said, 'Shouldn't I love to be a thankful servant (of Allah)?'" Al Bahnasi added that the Prophet pubh used to pray and cry so that a sound came from his breast like the rumbling of a mill owing to weeping.
The lecturer then explained that the Messenger of Allah pbuh was different in Ramadan than in any other month. In Ramadan, he used to increase performing acts of worship and righteous deeds that draw him closer to Allah, the Almighty. This is because he knew that Allah has attributed special virtues to the days and nights of the holy month. And although Allah, the Almighty, has forgiven the Messenger of Allah pbuh his past sins, yet he pbuh was the most diligent of all people in obeying his Lord, al Bahnasi underscored.
In this sacred month, the Prophet pbuh used to increase acts or worship and Jibril (Gabriel) puh used to come to him to revise the holy Quran with him. In this regard, it was narrated that Ibn Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "The Prophet pbuh was the most generous of all the people, and he used to become more generous in Ramadan when Gabriel met him. Gabriel used to meet him every night during Ramadan to revise the Quran with him. Allah's Messenger pbuh then used to be more generous than the fast wind," said Dr al Bahnasi.
On the same matter, Dr al Bahnasi also brought as evidence another Hadith on the authority of Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her. She reported, "With the start of the last ten days of Ramadan, the Prophet pbuh used to tighten his waist belt (i.e. work hard) and used to pray all the night, and used to keep his family awake for the prayers." In another Hadith, Abdullah Ibn Umar, may Allah be pleased with him said, "Allah's Messenger pbuh used to practice Ietikaf (seclusion for prayer) in the last ten days of the month of Ramadan. He used to call people to search for Laylat al Qadr (Night of Decree) for it is better than a thousand months."
The lecturer continued his discussion about the Prophet's traditions in Ramadan, saying, "The Prophet pbuh urged for Suhur (pre-dawn meal) as evidenced in this Hadith: It was narrated that Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, reported that the Prophet pbuh said, 'Take Suhur as there is a blessing in it.' He also used to guide Muslims to hasten in breaking their fast and delay Suhur. As for breaking fast, the Prophet pbuh used to hasten it immediately after the sunset and before al Maghrib prayer. In this regard, it was narrated that Saad, may Allah be pleased with him, reported that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, 'The people will remain on the right path as long as they hasten the breaking of the fast'."
Dr al Bahnasi continued explaining the traditions of the Prophet pbuh during Ramadan, saying, "The Prophet used to break his fast with some fresh dates, but if these were not available, he would eat a few dry dates, otherwise he would break his fast with water. Anas Ibn Malik, may Allah be pleased with him, said in this regard, 'The Messenger of Allah pbuh used to break his fast before praying with some fresh dates; but if there were no fresh dates, he had a few dry dates, and if there were no dry dates, he took some mouthfuls of water'."
He clarified that Muslims are now in dire need to follow the example of the Prophet pbuh in his worship and acts of obedience, noting that if one cannot resemble the Prophet pbuh, then at least one should try to draw as much as close to him, knowing that salvation is, indeed, in following the guidance of our Master Muhammad pbuh. So, let our acts of worship be true to the sake of Allah, the Almighty, and for showing off.
Dr al Bahnasi then clarified that Allah, the Most Exalted, has sent the Messenger pbuh as mercy to the whole worlds as well as guidance and bringer of glad tidings. Allah, the Almighty, says, "and We have not sent you, [O Muhammad], except as a mercy to the worlds." He is mercy for mankind, jinn, animals and non-living things, al Bahnasi explained, stressing that such mercy is an indication to his gracious status and good character, which was the Quran, for he embodied every good character that was mentioned in the holy Quran.
Dr al Bahnasi concluded his lecture by imploring to Allah, the Most Merciful, to have mercy on late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, and to protect HH the UAE President and continue granting him good health and wellbeing. He also prayed to Allah to grant success to the UAE wise leadership and make the UAE as well as all the Muslim countries an oasis of peace and safety.
On a related note, guest scholars Dr Shaaban Mohammed Ali Kafafi and Dr Hassan Awad Abu Arqoob have also delivered lectures at the Al Wagan tent in Al Ain.    
 
 













