addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In interaction with the Waqf campaign launched by Awqaf at the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan, the al Mutaarrid al Ghifari Majlis in Al Ain, hosted a lecture for Dr Abdul Maqsood Mahmoud Basha under the title "Waqf is a social partnership". The lecture addressed matters related to Waqf (endowment) in Islamic Shariaa and the social, educational, health and cultural positive effects of Islamic Waqf at all times and in all places.
In his lecture, Dr Basha urged members of the community to contribute to boosting the development of Waqf tradition in their community, citing the sustainable economic heritage of endowment, especially in light of the development of the concept of economic and investment charity that keeps pace with the development of modern environments and modern economic systems, which, he stressed, is amongst the renewal aspects in religion.
The lecturer further hailed the advanced religious discourse in the UAE and the achievements by Awqaf in terms of creating innovative methods that served Waqf projects, including mosques, Quran memorisation centres, Quran printing and Quran sciences as well as such new Waqf disbursement channels as Social Welfare and Community Services, and Waqf for Righteousness and Piety, in addition to Waqf for Loyalty to father and Waqf for Loyalty to mother, which are intended to honour parents by their offspring.
Such variety in endowment disbursement channels, Dr Basha underlined, is conducive to renew the concept of social partnership in establishing endowments and developing their resources by the endowers in Shariaa compliant ways. Ultimately, the proceeds of such endowments will be allocated for those who are eligible under the above mentioned disbursement channels, Dr Basha added.
On a related note, the contemporary Muslim jurists broadened the list of properties that could be donated as endowments, adding new items that were not included in the past ages. Those include endowment of cars, stocks, bonds, companies, banks, residential and commercial towers. Such diversity makes endowments a social partnership that allows the wealthy, middle income people and employees to participate in boosting the development of Waqf, each according to their capacity, be it one Dirham or a million Dirhams. Their contributions would be deposited in the banks that Awqaf has designated for this purpose, facilitating for the donors electronic and other means of communication, the aim being to complete the Waqf transactions as fast as possible.  
 
 













