addthis_pub="newawqaf";
















Awqaf awarded the winners of its holy Quran Contest in its 8th edition for the year 1438-2017. The awarding was done in presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matter al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, Awqaf's senior officials as well as the winners parents and families.  
Held at the Officers' Club Theatre in Abu Dhabi, the honouring ceremony opened with the recitation of verses from the Holy Quran by Emirati students who are gifted with beautiful voices. This was followed by a speech on behalf of Awqaf by Mr. Abdul Rahman al Shamsi, Director of Preaching Department.
In his speech, al Shamsi prayed to Allah, the Almighty, to grant success for HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheik Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council and Rulers of the Emirates, for their praiseworthy efforts in serving the Book of Allah. He also implored to Allah to reward them for their great care given to the Quran memorisation centres in the UAE, which Awqaf was honoured by managing them in consistency with the vision of the UAE wise leadership.
To this effect, al Shamsi underlined, Awqaf opened Quran memorisation centres across the UAE, launched Quranic contests and conducted specialised workshops for the staff managing those centres. Such great incubating Quranic centres were aimed at graduating generations who memorise the Book of Allah, organised in a unique consortium adorning their nation, he added.
"Every year, in the month of giving, we meet with you in a garden from amongst the gardens of heaven in order to award together a bright and honourable group of students whose love of the Book of Allah has brought them together, motivating them to compete in one of the greatest fields of competition. Why not honour them while during periods of the night and at the ends of the day they beautifully recite the verses of holy Quran, which Allah, the Most Exalted, made in it honour and glory? The Almighty says, 'We have certainly sent down to you a Book in which is your mention.' This means He honoured you," al Shamsi pointed out.
Al Shamsi continued saying, "In the name of Awqaf, it gives great me honour to address the memorisers of Allah's Book in this delightful ceremony and say: congratulations to you for such an excellence! You are a source of pride for this country... You are the fruits of the seeds that were sowed by the first founder of this award who took care of his seeds until they became a blossoming tree that offers its fruits every year."
Al Shamsi further recalled the words of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, while launching the blessed project of Quran memorisation centre in 1974, stressing that these words will be ever-remembered throughout the history. At that time, late Sheikh Zayed said, "When I introduced the project of the holy Quran memorisation for the youths, the ultimate goal was to strengthen their bonds with their religion, protect them from deviation and wrongdoing and teach them to love Allah, the Almighty, so that they could find solutions for their problems,"  al Shamsi said, praying to Allah, the Almighty, to admit, by His grace, Sheikh Zayed to the highest place in His Paradise and to add the verses recited by those blessed tongues to his record of good deeds.
He then clarified that this year's edition of the award saw the participation of 797 male and female contestants from all memorisation centres across the country, inmates of Punitive and Correctional institutions and the people of determination (people with special needs) in the UAE. 297 competitors were qualified for the finals, competing in the eleven categories of the award, al Shamsi added, noting that this year's contest included two new categories, the first of which was the "National beautiful reciting voices", which is a new category introduced by Awqaf as a step for reciters on the way to become Quran recites worldwide by graduating "UAE's Reciters". The second new category was the "Quranic Stories", which is dedicated for the staff of Quran memorisation centres who participate in preparing special curriculums, al Shamsi explained.
On another level, Awqaf extended thanks to all the cadres responsible for the Quran memorisation centres, including supervisors, administrators, tutors and all contributors and supports as well as students' parents. It also urged the Quran memorisers to make the great Quran a light and constitution that guide them in all their educational and practical affairs.
Concluding the ceremony, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi honoured the winners, presenting them shields, certificates and cash prizes. After that, Awqaf invited the audience to eat Iftar.      













