addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, talked about the need for Muslims to be grateful for the innumerable favours that Allah has bestowed upon them. Amongst such favours the scholars highlighted the bounty of creating mankind in a good stature and blessing them with the senses of sight, hearing, sensation, taste and smell.
The scholars explained that those bounties are complementing one another so that if one of the senses was lost, then the whole human system would suffer, the person's perception would be confused and they would lose a good part of their social balance. For instance, the scholars clarified, if one loses the sense of smell, then he/she will lose the bliss of smelling any scents, or even to recognise whether the smell of their own bodies are acceptable within the community or not.
They further stressed that being blessed with the sense of smelling, people will ensure they smell nice amongst the community, especially in mosques and public gatherings, noting that this was an example of the effect of only one of the countless and priceless bounties that Allah has endowed upon man.
Furthermore, the scholars underlined that every sensible human being should use such bounties in a manner that may pleases them as well as others. Indeed, this is the true way to show gratitude to Allah, the Most Gracious, for His favours, as He says, "if you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favour]," the scholars added. Yet, those who do not appreciate Allah's favours so that they use them in unlawful manner like snooping, spying, scorning and mocking others would definitely be losers. Such deeds are prohibited and severely punished as Allah, the Almighty says, "Woe to every scorner and mocker," the scholars underscored.
More to the point, the scholars further said, "Allah, the Almighty, has created the human beings in the best of stature and provided them with the most important means of living. Then, the Almighty, created for man provisions to maintain their healthy bodies, and guided them to the sources of provision and arranged it for them. Thereafter, Allah, the Almighty, enjoined man to take the appropriate actions and use the favours He bestowed upon them in such lawful and ethical domains that may contribute to developing life, helping the less fortunate and the poor, promoting social compassion and spending in the way of Allah without making their hands chained to their neck or extending them completely in extravagance, for Allah, the Almighty, says, "and spend out of that in which He has made you successors."
On a related note, the guest scholars' lectures were conducted in various mosques and other institutions across the country, including Al Dhafra Police Department, the Indian Cultural and Social Centre, Al Rahba hospital, Zayed Higher Organisation, Dar Zayed for Family Care and the National Rehabilitation Centre, just to mention a few.  
 













