addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Dr Hamdan Musallam al Mazrouei, Chairman of the UAE Red Crescent Authority, has donated "Burj Al Khair" as endowment. The tower is expected to generate around AED 25 million per year. Dr al Mazrouei dedicated 30 per cent of the tower's annual income for acts of goodness and charity.
Commenting on the move while inaugurating the tower, Dr al Mazrouei affirmed that such endowment is in line with the generous approach of the founding father, late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. It is also in response to the initiative by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, announcing 2017 as the year of giving, al Mazrouei added.
Under the kind patronage of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, this property, that comprises 20 floors in addition to the Mezzanine and ground floors, was constructed, Dr al Mazrouei underlined.
Dr al Mazrouei further pointed out that establishing the Waqf is the least thing that one can offer to the UAE, its citizens and residents, calling on the philanthropists and the wealthy members of the community to take such initiative by allocating a portion of their wealth for the best service of the community. He also underlined that the step was possible to be taken thanks to the environment that he was raised in and the love for giving that was nurtured in his heart and mind. It was also thanks to the means of facilitation offered by those who are in charge of the Waqf affairs as well as the directives of our wise leaders and rulers who always encourage charitable actions and giving, he explained.
Dr al Mazrouei, then, prayed to Allah, the Most Exalted and High, to "accept such deed through which we are seeking His satisfaction and ask Him to grant us success and righteousness." He also implored to Allah to protect the UAE wise leadership and guide them for all that is good and protect the UAE and its people from every evil.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, underscored that this Waqf features three matters, including continuity; for part of the endowment's proceeds would be allocated for future maintenance and renovation works, thus ensuring the continuity of the Waqf. In other words, this means prolonging the property's life and the thereby its continuity generation after generation, he further explained.
Concluding his comments, Dr al Kaabi called upon the endowers to take the example of such approach in order to preserve the tradition of charitable Waqf.
 













