addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, delivered a number of lectures across the UAE in which they focused on the divine care and secret protection of man at all times, whether while driving their cars, at work or sleeping. This is because all the capabilities granted to man works properly thanks to the care by Allah, the Most Exalted, until their demise, the scholars explained, adding that the challenges that people face are only reminders for them to remember their Creator, supplicate to Him and seek His mercy and protection. 
The scholars then gave examples from the holy Quran about the Prophets and the righteous ancestors and how they used to seek Allah's help, stressing that falsehood cannot approach the holy Quran from before it or from behind it; [it is] a revelation from a [Lord who is] Wise and Praiseworthy.
For instance, the scholars said, Prophet Yaaqoub (Jacob) pbuh sought refuge with his Lord when he lost his son for two years. After that, his sons came to him and requested him to allow them to take his brother as they were traveling to Egypt, saying "so when they returned to their father, they said, 'O our father, [further] measure has been denied to us, so send with us our brother [that] we will be given measure. And indeed, we will be his guardians'." Thereupon, Yaaqoub objected, reminding them of their previous promise which they did not fulfil when they lost his brother. He said, "should I entrust you with him except [under coercion] as I entrusted you with his brother before? But Allah is the best guardian, and He is the most merciful of the merciful."
Indeed, Allah, the Most Exalted, is the All-Protector, the All-Competent and the All-Merciful. And whatever appropriate actions one might take, they should always remember to rely on Allah, the Most High for He is "the best guardian, and He is the most merciful of the merciful."
Such meanings and values constituted the points of focus for the lectures of the guest scholars which they delivered yesterday in mosques across the UAE as well as at a number of institutions, including: the Armed Forces, the National Petroleum Construction Company and the Community Police Department, just to mention a few. 
 













