addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of the events of the Programme of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him, and in framework of the "Year of Giving" initiative, Awqaf organised yesterday, 16 Ramadan, a seminar about tolerance in Islam at Majlis Mohammed Belaajer al Rumaithi in Al Samha, Abu Dhabi. The seminar saw the participation of scholar Dr Hamdi Murad, guest scholar, and Yusuf Mohammed al Nuaimi, Advisor at the Ministry of Tolerance. It was attended by a large number of citizens who hailed the move.
The seminar discussed two themes, namely tolerance in the Islamic heritage and UAE's efforts in promoting the value of religious tolerance and peaceful co-existence amongst the members of the community. Dr Murad addressed the topic of tolerance in Islam, types and aspects of tolerance and the value of tolerance in the holy Quran and the Prophetic Sunna. Elaborating on the topic, he brought examples from the life of the righteous ancestors.
Meanwhile, Advisor Yusuf al Nuaimi, talked about the philosophy of tolerance in the UAE, stressing that tolerance is a noble humane value that Islam was keenly interested in entrenching and, thus, emphasised it in several places of the holy Quran and in the Prophetic Hadith.
Al Nuaimi, further stressed that the foundations of such common humane principles as dialogue, co-existence, respect and acceptance of others, cooperation and solidarity were firmly established by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan and the other founding fathers, may Allah rest their souls in peace.
Concerning the culture of tolerance in the UAE, al Nuaimi affirmed the keen interest of the UAE leadership headed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, in deeply instilling the values of tolerance in the society. This is because the UAE is founded on sound principles that are aimed at strengthening relationships with others on grounds of mutual respect, understanding, dialogue and cooperation as well as rejecting all types of terrorism, violence and extremism.
Furthermore, he clarified that the UAE government, under the leadership of HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, works on promoting such values through pioneering programmes and activities that are conducive to cement the values of tolerance, respect of multiculturalism and acceptance of the other, intellectually, culturally and at the level of their religions and sects.
The UAE was, and is still, a supporter of peace and a symbol of peace amongst peoples. Furthermore, Emiratis are characterised by good conducts, kind treatment of one another, positive interaction with others and respect of the cultural diversity that enriches the Emirati society at all levels, stressed Al Nuaimi.
Al Nuaimi also highlighted a number of the most important articles in the UAE constitution that emphasise the principles and values of tolerance. For instance, he said, article 25, chapter three (Freedoms, rights and public duties), says: "All persons shall be equal before the law. No discrimination shall be practised between citizens of the Union by reason of race, nationality, religious belief or social position." Moreover, he added, article 32 of the same chapter says, "The freedom to hold religious ceremonies in accordance with established custom shall be safeguarded, provided such ceremonies are consistent with public order and with public morals."
Meanwhile, article 40 of the same chapter, al Nuaimi explained, stipulated the freedoms, rights and public duties related to foreigners: "Foreigners shall enjoy, within the Union, the rights and freedoms stipulated in international charters which are in force, or in treaties and agreements to which the Union is party. They shall be subject to the equivalent obligations."
More to the point, al Nuaimi clarified that the UAE ranked first in the world in foreigners' tolerance as it occupied the first place internationally in the foreigners' index of the Global Talent Competitive Index 2016 and stood third internationally in the national culture index related to tolerance and openness of the local culture to accept others, raising from eighth place in 2015 in the annual book of global competitiveness issued by the International Institute for Administrative Development. The report has evaluated 61 advanced economies, he added.
Elaborating on the measures taken by the UAE to boost its efforts aimed at achieving co-existence, al Nuaimi underlined that the UAE has taken several measures including legislative measures, cultural religious measures and social media measures. Of the legislative measures, al Nuaimi mentioned:
-       Issuing "Law on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters" in 2006.
-       Forming the "National Committee to Combat Terrorism" in 2009.
-       Creating "Hedayah, the International Centre of Excellence for Countering Violent Extremism" in 2013. Hedayah is the first independent research institution that supports dialogue, research and training in the way of combatting extremism, he explained.
-       Issuing anti-terrorism law in 2014 to fight terrorist crimes.
-       Enacting Anti-Discrimination and Hatred Law in 2015. The law features articles that are aimed at ensuring equality amongst members of the community, criminalising discrimination between individuals or groups based on religion, sect, race, colour or ethnic grounds.
 
As for the cultural religious measures, al Nuaimi highlighted the following:
-       Establishing the Muslim Council of Elders in 2014, which is an independent international body that is aimed at promoting peace in Muslim communities. 
-       Hosting the "Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Communities" in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
 
Moving to the social media measures, al Nuaimi underlined that the UAE has launched several initiatives that were aimed at employing the social media channels in combating terrorism and extremism and cementing the values of co-existence and tolerance. A number of key measures that al Nuaimi underscored included:
-       Launching the "Sawab Centre - United against Extremism", a joint UAE-US initiative that is aimed at optimising the use of social media channels to correct misconceptions.
-       In its session of May 2015, the Council of Arab Ministers of Information adopted UAE's proposal about "The role of media in spreading the values of tolerance and combating extremism."
-       In the meeting of the First Standing Committee on International Peace and Security, which was held in Lusaka - Zambia as part of the 134th General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the UAE suggested launching an international programme under the theme "Programme of civilisations dialogue to fight terrorism and extremism."
-       Announcing the "International Institute for Tolerance and Mohammed bin Rashid Award for Tolerance" on October 8 2016. The institute and the award, al Nuaimi clarified, will work on achieving the below goals:
1-      Supporting intellectual, cultural and media production.
2-      Launching a set of social researches.
3-      Supporting Arab researchers and international specialists in the field of tolerance.
4-      Transforming the value of tolerance into sustainability organisational work that returns with welfare to the people of the Arab region.
5-      Providing Arab young people with intellectual fortification.
6-      Nurturing professional and distinguished young leaders who will instil tolerance as thought, value and behaviour.
7-      Honouring the symbols of tolerance in categories of human intellect, literary creativity and aesthetic arts.
8-      Organising innovative contests in the field of youth's projects and new media.
9-       Organising events and symposiums that are conducive to cement the values of tolerance, peaceful co-existence and harmony.
 
In the same regard, Al Nuaimi added that on June 8 2016, the UAE Cabinet approved a National Tolerance Programme that is mainly aimed at continuing to build the culture of respect of multiculturalism and acceptance of the others, intellectually, culturally and religiously, as well as rejecting violence, fanaticism, discrimination and hatred.
The programme is based on seven pillars which al Nuaimi underlined, including:
1-      Islam
2-      UAE constitution
3-      Zayed's legacy and ethics of the UAE
4-      International conventions
5-      Archaeology and history
6-      Humanity
7-      Common values
 
Al Nuaimi concluded by shedding light on the five main themes of the programme, which included:  
1-      Strengthen government's role as an incubator of tolerance.
2-      Consolidate the role of family in nation building.
3-      Promote tolerance among young people and prevent them from fanaticism and extremism.
4-      Enrich scientific and cultural content.
5-      Integrate international efforts to promote tolerance and highlight the leading role of UAE in this area.   













