addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimai, Member of the Supreme Council and Ruler of Ajman, praised the efforts by those running the Quran memorisation centres and their role in educating the students, helping them to memorise the verses of the holy Quran and Sunni Hadith and teaching them the sciences and biographies of the Prophet's companions.
HH the Ruler of Ajman further praised the care and support to the Quran memorisation centres by the UAE wise leadership, led by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates, praying to Allah, the Most Exalted, to protect the UAE and continue blessing it with security and stability. 
Statements were made as HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi received the directors of the winning Quran memorisation centres in Ajman in the 8th edition of the Quran Memorisation Contest of the Awqaf. The directors were honoured by meeting HH and extending their greetings to him on the occasion of the holy month of Ramadan.
HH the Ruler of Ajman welcomed the centres' delegation, expressing his appreciation for Awqaf's Quran memorisation Award and its role in developing the mission of the Quranic centres and encouraging children and their parents to memorise the Holy Book and compete in reciting it beautifully.
During the meeting, HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid al Nuaimi listened to brief reports from the centres' directors about the role played by those centres in spreading the culture of Quran memorisation amongst the students and their parents.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, hailed the positive participation of the centres in Ajman while praising the support received by the centres and mosques in the emirate from His Highness Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi.
"The organisation of the holy Quran memorisation and Tajweed Award by Awqaf at the level of the UAE is in line with Awqaf's strategic plan, which was approved by the UAE Cabinet. It is also aimed at encouraging people to recite and memorise the Book of Allah and learn its sciences," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "Thanks to the unlimited support by the UAE wise leadership, the Quran memorisation centres have become model educational beacons that are equipped by all modern teaching methods that keep in pace with the UAE's cultural renaissance. Moreover, Awqaf provides a Multilanguage unified curriculum for Quran memorisation at all the centres, the aim being to ensure serving the public from all walks of life and from different nationalities."
Concerning the establishment of the holy Quran Award, Dr al Kaabi stressed that it was aimed at elevating the level of holy Quran memorisation and creating the spirit of competitiveness amongst the members of the community in the field of the holy Quran recitation and memorisation. It is also aimed at nurturing and honouring the distinguished memorisers, Dr al Kaabi added, pointing out that in this year's edition contestants competed in nine categories. The participants came from various levels, including Buds (youngsters), higher age group and people with special needs in addition to male and female tutors working at the Quranic centres, Dr al Kaabi added.
Worth mentioning, as many as 267 male and female contestants from the students of Quran memorisation centres and sessions in mosques across the UAE were qualified for the finals of this year's edition of the holy Quran contest. Forty nine of the qualified contestants came from the people of determination and inmates of the punitive and correctional institutions. The finalists have been nominated from amongst 797 contestants who competed in the primary qualifiers of the award in its various categories.
The winner of the first place in the award's "best Quran memorisation centre" category at the level of the UAE was Al Atrija centre in Ajman, which registered 1207 female students. The centre came first in the category of memorising three parts of the holy Quran, second in the category of memorising 20 consecutive parts, Emirati female contestants' category, and the second place in memorising 20 parts of the Quran for female residents. 
Meanwhile, Al Etihad Centre in Ajman, which comprises 581 male and female students, reaped the third place in the ninth category of the award, "Composing Quranic stories," which saw the participation of male and female memorisers from Awqaf's Quranic centres. The centre also won the second and third places in the eighth category of the award (National beautiful reciting voices), a new category introduced by Awqaf as a step for reciters on the way to become Quran recites worldwide. Moreover, al Etihad centre also won the third place in the category of "Reciting and Tajweed".
In the category of the people of determination, Hajar Centre, of 677 female students, won the first place at the level of the UAE.
 













