addthis_pub="newawqaf";















With endorsement by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, issued directives to rename the Mohammed bin Zayed mosque in Mushrif, a district in Abu Dhabi, as "Mariam Umm Isa", Arabic for "Mary, the mother of Jesus". 
Setting a shining example of the tolerance and coexistence enjoyed by the UAE, the inauguration of the new name was done by HE Sheikha Lubna al Qasimi, Minister of State for Tolerance, in presence of HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, and a host of scholars, Muftis and Awqaf's department managers in addition to a number of Christian clergymen.
Commenting on the occasion, HH Sheikha Lubna said, "On this day, the Zayed Humanitarian Day, we appreciate this initiative of renaming this big and renowned mosque in Abu Dhabi after Sayida Virgin Mariam. The mosque is surrounded by a biggest number of churches in the emirate, a matter which sets a beautiful image of tolerance, coexistence and respect of religions cherished in the UAE. Naming this mosque, which is located amongst such number of churches, after Sayida Mariam embodies a great honouring by the UAE wise leadership as well as its people. It sends a positive message to the whole world. Today, our gathering here in this mosque along with their eminence the Muftis, scholars and Christian clergymen resembles a great human act."
"In all our meetings abroad, we have always recognised and appreciated the great role played by Awqaf which carried the mission of promoting the values of tolerance, religious moderation and respect of all divine religions in combatting the extremist and fanatic ideologies. This is done by cementing a moderate religious discourse in all its mosques, lessons and Friday sermons. In fact, the presence of Muftis side by side with the Christian clergymen today reflects the true reality of the peaceful coexistence enjoyed in the UAE, which receives appreciation and admiration of the world," Sheikha Lubna concluded.
For his part, HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi welcomed the move and thanked HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed for such initiative, saying, "Since the days of Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, our astute leadership has always been keenly interested in cementing tolerance and peaceful coexistence that is based on justice and brotherliness amongst all those living in the UAE."
"This was the same approach followed by HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, and HH Sheikh Mohammad bin Zayed Al Nahyan as people from more than 200 nations are living in comfort, security and peace in the UAE. Such peaceful coexistence is based on our holy religion, as Islam urges us to follow justice, respect others' rights, show kindness, cooperate in giving with other people, and do all that which may preserve their dignity and right in decent living," Dr al Kaabi further explained.
He also highlighted that the story of Mariam and her carrying of Isa was a divine miracle that was aimed at guiding the humanity. Sayida Mariam has set an example for every pure girl and her name was mentioned in 29 Ayas of the holy Quran when Isa Ibn Mariam was mentioned in 25 Ayas of the holy Quran, Dr al Kaabi added, stressing that the Prophet Isa Ibn Mariam enjoys an exceptional sacredness and respect in Quran, Sunna and Islamic teachings.
For his part, reverend Bishop Ibrahim Farouk from the Christian Coptic Orthodox Church of Egypt in Abu Dhabi, said, "This day sets a wonderful example of love and peaceful coexistence in the UAE, which is always in the lead of the world's countries in religious tolerance, brotherliness and peace. Such principles are all guaranteed through the laws enacted in it."
"Naming this mosque after the Sayida Mariam puh is a gesture of love and peace that we hope will be followed around the world," Bishop Farouk concluded.
 













