addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah for His encompassing favours and perfect kindness. We thank Him also for helping us to stand for prayer in the nights of Ramadan and fast its days. I bear witness that there is deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "and those who are guided - He increases them in guidance and gives them their righteousness." (Muhammad: 17).
O Observers of Fasting,
Please know that Ramadan is a school wherein the fasting Muslims see their behaviour refined and character elevated. One of the most important values that we learn in the school of Ramadan is patience as the Messenger of Allah pbuh said to one of his companions, "Observe fasting in the month of patience, Ramadan."
Indeed, patience is a doorway to every virtue and a cause for all that which is good. It is one of the bounties endowed upon us by Allah, the Most Great. The Prophet pbuh said, "No one has been given by Allah a more ample gift than endurance." This is because the benefits of perseverance are many. For instance, it strengthens man's endurance so that they abstain from their desires, engage diligently in acts of obedience to Allah, the Almighty, and refrain from doing all that He has prohibited. Allah, the Most High, says, "and whoever honours the symbols of Allah - indeed, it is from the piety of hearts." (Al-Hajj: 32).
Thus, whoever shows patience while abstaining from the permissible things he used to enjoy out of obedience to Allah; he will definitely possess more resilience and ability to stop himself from doing what Allah, the Almighty, prohibited.
Furthermore, the person who shows patience will also show endurance in engaging in such acts of obedience as establishing the prescribed prayers, standing for night prayers, fasting, reciting the holy Quran, Duaa (supplication), Dhikr (remembrance of Allah), repentance and seeking Allah's forgiveness, giving and kindness. He will also be spirited to maintain ties of kinship, keenly interested in attending the lessons of knowledge and other acts of obedience that may draw him closer to his Lord. In fact, all these acts require patience to be accomplished.
On another level, treating others in kindness is amongst the other values that one learns in Ramadan and that complements and perfects patience in performing acts of worship. So, a fasting Muslim should only say that which good and choose the finest and most lenient words of mouth.
It was narrated in this regard that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Indeed in Paradise there are chambers, whose outside can be seen from their inside, and their inside can be seen from their outside." A Bedouin stood and said: "Who are they for, O Messenger of Allah?" He pbuh said: "For those who speak well, feed others, fast regularly, and perform prayer [for Allah] during the night while the people are asleep."
Truly, being kind while talking to others and avoiding backbiting are amongst the good qualities that fasting Muslims ensure to embrace during the blessed month of Ramadan. This is because they fear Allah, the Most High, who says, "man does not utter any word except that with him is an observer prepared [to record]." (Qaf: 18).
This leads us to another virtue that Ramadan cements in the hearts and minds of Muslims, which is being mindful of Allah, the Almighty, so that their fasting should be correct and accepted. Undoubtedly, this is conducive to teach us to be watchful of Allah, the Most Exalted at all times. As a result, we maintain our trusts, fulfil our covenants, keep up to our promises, excel in doing our work and, ultimately, cherish a happy and prosperous life as well as develop our society.
An illustration of this can be seen in this Aya in which Allah, the Most Sublime, says, "O you who have believed, respond to Allah and to the Messenger when he calls you to that which gives you life." (Al-Anfal: 24). That is to say: to that which mend your affairs.
Dear Muslims,
One other lesson that draw in the holy Ramadan is that life is a racetrack wherein people compete in doing acts of goodness, make best use of their time and race in performing acts of obedience, and thereby, adhere to Allah's orders: "so race to [all that is] good." (Al-Baqara: 148).
By so doing, the Muslim person's life will revolve about performing acts of worship and obedience, working hard and making achievements, teaching and learning too. Allah, the Most Exalted and Sublime says, "O mankind, indeed you are labouring toward your Lord with [great] exertion and will meet it." (Al-Inshiqaq: 6). This means, you are striving in the way of your Lord, showing in that much persistence, and, ultimately, you will see what you do, be it good or evil.
By understanding such facts, one can realise the value of time in our life. Therefore, whoever invests his time in good actions will, by Allah's grace, attain happiness in this world and win Paradise in the Hereafter, for Allah, the Almighty, says, "and whatever good you put forward for yourselves - you will find it with Allah. It is better and greater in reward." (Al-Muzzammil: 20).
Knowing this, you are urged to preserve the achievements that you have earned during the holy month once it ended. One of the important values that a Muslim acquires during Ramadan is the value of sustainability and maintaining whatever one have achieved during it. This was amongst the things that our Master Muhammad was keen to do. Thus, he was steadfast on performing each act of worship or obedience that he performed in Ramadan.
 
On this account, it was narrated that the Mother of Believers, Sayida Aisha, may Allah be pleased with her said, "Whenever the Messenger of Allah pbuh began an action, he would do it continuously." And he pbuh enjoined his companions to be regular in performing acts of worship and doing good deeds, saying, "The acts most pleasing to Allah are those which are done most continuously."
Undoubtedly, the souls that realised the true meaning of obedience, experienced the bliss of privately appealing to their Lord, tasted the sweetness of faith and attachment to the Most Merciful, will surely endeavour to sustain what they have attained during the holy month.
In Ramadan, Muslims strive in establishing prayers on their prescribed times, hasten to do charitable acts and race towards all that is virtuous. They will also show politeness and purity and display humbleness. After the end of the sacred month, they are also urged to uphold the good character they embraced therein, for Allah, the Almighty, praises those who are regular in performing acts of obedience and fulfilling the rights of their Lord. The Most Exalted says, "indeed, the Muslim men and Muslim women, the believing men and believing women, the obedient men and obedient women, the truthful men and truthful women, the patient men and patient women, the humble men and humble women, the charitable men and charitable women, the fasting men and fasting women, the men who guard their private parts and the women who do so, and the men who remember Allah often and the women who do so - for them Allah has prepared forgiveness and a great reward." (Al-Ahzab: 35).
With this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the Almighty, to guide us all obey him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
O Worshipers,
To bring greater value to our fasting, Allah has prescribed for us Zakat Al Fitr. It is enjoined upon us to achieve such lofty goals as purifying us from any indecent act or speech and for the purpose of providing food for the needy and easing distress of the less fortunate.
Zakat Al Fitr is enjoined on the one who fasts (i.e., fasted during the month of Ramadan) to pay it on his behalf and on behalf of his family and dependants. On this matter, it was narrated that Ibn Omar, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "The Messenger of Allah pbuh enjoined Zakat Al Fitr and ordered to exert a Saa (measure) of dry dates or barely."
Saa is measured as 2.04 kilogrammes from the common staple food of the community. It is estimated in UAE at 20 dirhams per person.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. He pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
 
O Allah, we seek your grace to accept our fasting, night prayers, prescribed prayers, Zakat and all our good actions.
O Allah, we implore to You to make us amongst those who fast Ramadan out of sincere faith and hoping for a reward from You and thus You forgive them their sins. May Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, return Ramadan to us for many years to come.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we supplicate to You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 
 













