addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HE Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak, the Minister of Culture and Community Development, attended yesterday an evening at Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque, marking the Zayed Humanitarian Day. The event was held under the patronage of the Ministry of Presidential Affairs in cooperation with Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre in Abu Dhabi and Awqaf. It marked the Zayed Humanitarian Day which coincides with the thirteenth anniversary of the demise of late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
The evening was also attended by Sheikh Abdullah bin Mohammed bin Khalid Al Nahyan, Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid al Mualla, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, the scholars guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, may Allah protect him, and a number of ambassadors of Arab and Islamic countries to the UAE.
Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi delivered a speech in which he said, "We thank Allah, the Almighty, for making us amongst the sons of Zayed and his generous offspring; a nation that is tolerant, ambitious, confident, responsible, open and adherent to its heritage and humanitarian culture. A nation that works hard and builds in a coherent community, continuing its march with unity and solidarity with its leadership, following in steps of their founding fathers; carrying loyalty as a symbol and giving as a cloak."
"On this occasion, we would like to renew our allegiance and loyalty to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates, may Allah protect and guide them to all that is good. We also pray to Allah, the Almighty, to show mercy on our late father and admit him to his Paradise," Dr al Kaabi concluded.
For his part, Dr Abdul Rahman Abbas from Al Azhar and one of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, delivered a speech titled "The value of humanitarian giving in Islam." In his speech, Dr Abbas said, "Amongst the fruits of giving is establishing affection and love amongst people and making them happier. The late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, has touched people's hearts with happiness, thus his legacy will be everlasting and he will be remembered throughout the ages. He was an inspiring leader who established such an innovative approach that one can barely see around the world."
"Humanitarian issues topped the matters of concern to Sheikh Zayed, whether inside or outside the UAE. Humanitarian actions were amongst the firm principles for him, ones that were based on sincere belief. Thus, such principles never changed in all places and at all times," Dr Abbas underlined, adding that late Sheikh Zayed has implemented so many development projects so one cannot talk about them all in one gathering.
"The great giving of the late leader across borders reflected the unity of human destiny. Everywhere around the world, Zayed is a leader, a father and a philanthropist who bears in his heart love for all human beings and in his people he sees his aspirations. He established for the UAE a humanitarian reputation that is testified worldwide. His humanitarian giving reached all people regardless of their race, colour or nationality," added Dr Abbas.
"These are the principles of Zayed, the benevolent, that are aimed at touching people's hearts with happiness. He strived to make such giving approach as a doctrine for the UAE, ensuring that it took the lead in preventing dangerous risks. For this purpose, he established Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation," Dr Abbas further highlighted, adding that giving and good actions are still flowing by the hands of the UAE's current wise leadership, headed by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
The evening also brought to stage Dr Mohammed Sutari, Mufti of the province of Shkodra in Albania. Dr Sutari delivered a speech under the title "Zayed, the symbol of giving in Albania" in which he said, "Late Sheikh Zayed was a man of charitable acts who loved human happiness and humanity. He left his generous footprints in the field of charitable work, ones that made the UAE a unique model in our world in terms of bringing happiness, stability, tolerance and love amongst peoples."
 













