addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf held a graduation ceremony for the first batch of male and female Quran memorisers who have applied for licensing with sound chain of authorities in the Hafs-an-Aasim reading of the Quran for the year "1438 - 2017". The ceremony was held at Jumeira Etihad Towers in Abu Dhabi and attended by HE Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman.
The first course was conducted across the Emirates. It lasted for four months and saw the participation of 99 male and female students. The students took the exams during the first week of the current holy month of Ramadan. The 89 memorisers who were qualified for the license have been honoured and granted certificates by Awqaf.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammad Matar al Kaabi hailed the great support to Awqaf and the Quran memorisation centres by the UAE wise leadership, praying to Allah, the Most Exalted, to continue blessing HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, with good health and wellness, and to grant success to HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, and Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. He also prayed to Allah to guide them all for all that may further enhance the glory of the UAE and the happiness of its people.
"Awqaf is indeed delighted with such an achievement in the service the holy Quran and the happiness of its memorisers, especially that it is the world's first Islamic entity that grants the licensing with sound chain of authorities. It is really a great honour that a student reaches in the chain of authorities to the Messenger of Allah pbuh," Dr al Kaabi underlined.
Dr al Kaabi further stressed that the committee that has overseen the initiative has ensured absolute preciseness in its work as well as in the exams. This is because the memoriser who is granted such license will be carrying a great trust and thus should be well qualified and set an example in the ethics that Quran memorisers should embrace, for the Prophet pbuh embraced the character of the Quran, al Kaabi explained.
Dr al Kaabi also underscored that the professional means that Awqaf adopts enabled it to come out with innovative initiatives, such as the licensing with chain of authorities. He uncovered that Awqaf is set to expand vertically in the readings and mastering their sciences, the aim being to develop new sciences, ideas and initiatives based on this science.
Concluding the ceremony, Dr al Kaabi distributed the certificates and gifts to the graduates. He also honoured the tutors and the administrative staff.  
 













