addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
First Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar Wa Lillahil-Hamd  (Allah is the Greatest eight successive times and Allah is the Greatest, to Allah all praise is due).
Allah Akbar as many times as a fasting person rejoiced breaking their fasting, people voluntarily prayed and repeated Takbir, hearts became purified and brought closer and souls became tolerant. "Then, to Allah belongs [all] praise - Lord of the heavens and Lord of the earth, Lord of the worlds." (Al-Jathiya: 36).
I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger to the people of the whole world. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, for His obedience is a cause for being admitted to Paradise. Allah, the Most Exalted says, "and how excellent is the home of the righteous - Gardens of perpetual residence, which they will enter, beneath which rivers flow. They will have therein whatever they wish. Thus does Allah reward the righteous." (An-Nahl: 30-31).
O Believers,
Today is the day of Eid, a day of happiness and delight. This day is a valuable opportunity for us to visit one another, keep our ties of kinship, shake hands and show tolerance to each other. Our great religion urged for keeping good relationships and strengthening humane bonds. Indeed, Islam is a human religion that encompasses all people with its care and engulfs them with its tolerant values.
 
Allah, the Almighty, says, "say, [O Muhammad], 'O mankind, indeed I am the Messenger of Allah to you all'." (Al-Aaraf: 158). This is because all people are the descendants of Adam. In the same regard, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "People are all the children of Adam, and Adam was [created] from dust."
Thus, all people came from the same origin, something that Muslims translated on grounds through intercultural communication throughout history. So, they set a role model in building human relationships that were above all racist tendencies and behaviours as well as promoted harmony amongst all people.   
In such approach, Muslims were guided by Allah's commands, knowing that the Almighty has created mankind from one soul and made it peoples and tribes that they may with and support one another as well as know one another. They also understand that the Almighty sent down the religion to them so that they come close to one another and live in accord. Allah, the Most High says, "O mankind, indeed We have created you from male and female and made you peoples and tribes that you may know one another." (Al-Hujurat: 13).
Without a doubt, co-existence and civilised communication is a positive phenomenon that has always been a means of exchanging knowledge and experiences and spreading the benefits of human innovation. Thus, civilisations' production would definitely increase with the broadening of their intercommunication.
By keeping good contacts with others, Islamic civilisation has accomplished great scientific achievements and established humane constructive cooperation. This was achieved through the movements of translation and knowledge transfer. As a result, our civilisation prospered so much so its cities and countries became a destination for scholars and knowledge seekers in all disciplines.
Truly, this is how intercultural communication amongst nations should be. They complement one another. In fact, communities in the modern age are in dire need for such civilised interaction and fruitful dialogue.
 
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil-Hamd.
O People,
Our Master Muhammad pbuh, the Messenger of mercy, has advocated to us Sunnas (traditions and teachings) that were conducive to help in extending bridges of communication with others and opening horizons for people and civilisations to come together. One such tradition that the Prophet pbuh ordered us to follow is to exchange the greetings of peace, for it is one of the best deeds in Islam.
An illustration of this can be seen in the following Hadith. It was narrated that a man asked the Messenger of Allah pbuh, "What Islamic traits are the best?" The Prophet said, "Feed the people, and greet those whom you know and those whom you do not know."
Indeed, exchanging the greetings of peace is conducive to promote love and affection amongst all people as the Prophet pbuh said, "Shall I tell you of something which, if you do it, you will love one another? Spread the greetings of peace amongst yourselves."
Furthermore, greeting others and meeting them with a smile regardless of their ethnicities or religion will, surely, send them an assuring message that will impart tranquillity to their souls. The Prophet pbuh has really set the best example on this. It was narrated that Abdullah Ibn Al Harith, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "I have not seen anyone who smiled more than the Messenger of Allah pbuh.
More to the point, our sound religion has urged Muslims to establish fruitful contacts with all other people on grounds of kind treatment, noble actions and good word of mouth. This was emphasised in the holy Quran in which Allah, the Most Gracious, ordered us to be lenient while talking to others. The Almighty says, "and speak to people good [words]."  (Al-Baqara: 83).
This means, speak with them in kindness and show leniency to them. This way, people will communicate in the most elevated manners, using the sweetest of speech.  
 
Furthermore, the positive effects of such a kind and noble way of speech can be greatly boosted if it is accompanied with a gift. Indeed, the positive effect of gift giving is tremendous in attracting others and appealing to their hearts. On this account, it was narrated that the Prophet pbuh once gifted Umar Ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, an expensive gown. In his turn, Umar gave the gown as a gift to his brother in Mecca who was, then, not embracing Islam.
In such an incident, there is an indication on the strong and positive bonds between Muslims and non-Muslims and the need to treat non-Muslims with kindness and give them gifts. The Prophet pubh accepted the gift and used to recompense whoever gifted him by giving them a gift that was better or equal (in value) to the gift that they have presented to him.
Furthermore, our Master Muhammad pbuh used gifts as means of extending bridges of cooperation and interaction with all the people of the world, the aim being to bring people closer to each other and, thus touch their hearts with happiness and promote cooperation amongst them. Ultimately, they would continue their cultural building march, achieving glory, writing a common bright history and preparing for a prosperous future. 
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, La Ilaha Illa Llah, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil-Hamd.
O Cherishers of Eid,
Please know that Islam has given utmost care to human relationships in the community, so it encompassed them with the bonds of affection and love. As such, Islam called for showing kindness towards one's neighbours and friends, compassion towards widows, the needy people, orphans and the less fortunate.
From this perspective, Eid offers a precious occasion for all people to seek mending their relationships, shake hands, interact with one another, visit each other and exchange greetings. Indeed, Eid is rendered for us as an opportunity for boosting humane relationships and social bonds with the ruler by exchanging congratulations, love and loyalty and renewing allegiance and affiliation to them.
 
Amongst the bounties bestowed by Allah upon us in the UAE is the parental relationship between the rulers and the people. Our rulers strive to ensure providing decent life to their people. Truly, this is one of the most beautiful aspects of solidarity that is based on respect, appreciation, gratitude and obedience. In all this, they are guided by Allah's orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
With this in mind, we pray to Allah to direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil-Hamd.
I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. He urged us to communicate with others in goodness and encouraged us to treat them in kindness. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
In this blessed and joyous Eid, I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted. You are also advised to consolidate relationships with your kith and kin, show obedience to parents and treat them nicely. Allah, the Almighty, says, "and your Lord has decreed that you not worship except Him, and to parents, good treatment." (Al-Israa: 23).
Being kind to one's parents is an obligation that Allah, the Most Exalted, made as one of the doorways to His Paradise in the Hereafter. He rewards those who are kind to their parents in the worldly life too. The Most Gracious says, "and say, 'My Lord, have mercy upon them as they brought me up [when I was] small'." (Al-Israa: 24).
In like manner, the day of Eid is an excellent opportunity for fathers to touch their children's hearts with happiness by giving them gifts and spending on them generously. They should also nurture in their minds their authentic traditions and noble customs. They can, for instance, accompany them to visit their relatives and friends.
Indeed, keeping contacts with relatives and friends is conducive to increasing the delight of Eid by communication, exchanging visits and boosting the bonds of love and consolidation with relatives.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the Most Sublime, says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to render this Eid to us happiness, solidarity and compassion. O Allah, please increase us in tranquillity and delight and continue blessing our beloved country, our houses, families and relatives with happiness.
O Lord, we implore to you to make us witness Eid for many years to come and bring back to us with welfare, prosperity and blessings.
O Allah, You granted us a homeland of tolerance and love, so we seek Your grace to increase us in tolerance, happiness and affection.
O Allah, we supplicate to You to make forgiveness our quality, tolerance our character and kind treatment our trait. Indeed, You are the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Allah, we beseech You to make reading, books and knowledge seeking dear to us.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Eid Mubarak, and we wish you many happy returns of the occasion.
 













