addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah for the Lord of the Worlds. He promises His believing servants with Paradise as their eternal abode and opens its doorways for those who are obedient. I bear witness that there is deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, for His obedience is a cause for attaining happiness and winning tranquillity in this world and in the Hereafter. Allah, the Most Exalted, says, "unquestionably, [for] the allies of Allah there will be no fear concerning them, nor will they grieve. Those who believed and were fearing Allah, for them are good tidings in the worldly life and in the Hereafter." (Yunus: 62-64).
O Believers,
In His Book, Allah, the Most Exalted and Sublime, addressed the believers and called upon them in ninety places. Moreover, in an indication to the believers virtues and high status, Allah, the Almighty, has dedicated one Surat in the holy Quran to celebrate their merits, which is Surat "Al Muminoon" (the Believers).
The Most High opened this blessed Surat by giving glad tidings to the true believers, saying, "certainly will the believers have succeeded." (Al-Muminoon: 1). In this Aya, Allah, the Almighty, gives glad tidings to the believers of success and great attainment. Thereafter, the Most Exalted mentions the ethical and behavioural qualities of the believers. The first of such merits that the Almighty describes is submissiveness during prayer. So, He says, "they who are during their prayer humbly submissive." (Al-Muminoon: 2).
 
Thus, the first character of the believers is that their hearts are attached to their Lord and their limbs are humbly submissive to Him. As such, they diligently hasten to establish their prayers, leaving in this way all their other worldly matters. In return, they attain the great recompense of being admitted to Allah's Paradise as their eternal dwelling.
This was further emphasised by the Prophet pbuh when he said, "If any Muslim performs ablution perfectly, then stands and prays two rakaas setting about them with his heart as well as his face, Paradise would be guaranteed to him."
This is because, while praying, the glory of Allah, the Most Exalted, would be present in their hearts and they will contemplate on the Ayas and Tasbihs that they recite.
While beginning the qualities of the true believers with being humbly submissive in their prayers, Allah, the Almighty, concludes their merits with the quality of being diligent in establishing the prescribed prayers. The Most exalted says, "and they who carefully maintain their prayers." (Al-Muminoon: 9). So, those who are steadfast on observing their prayers, while perfecting their bowing and prostration during them, then they will, by Allah's grace, be amongst the winners.
On the same account, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Allah, the Most Exalted, has made five prayers obligatory. If anyone performs ablution for them well, offers them at their (prescribed) time, and observes perfectly their bowing, prostration and submissiveness, it is the guarantee of Allah that He will forgive them (their sins)."
Indeed, observing the prayers at their prescribed times reflects soundness of the heart with faith and its guidance with the obedience of Allah, the Most Forgiving. This is because prayer refines the believer's behaviour and helps them to embrace all the other good qualities that are conducive to lead them to happiness and success.
O Worshipers,
 
One other character of the believers that Allah mentions in Surat al Muminoon is "and they who turn away from ill speech." (Al Muminoon: 3). Truly, one of the Muslim's noble characters is to avoid indulging in indecent speech and be above idle and false talk. A true believer would rather chose the sweetest words of mouth and utter the best of expressions. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "The true believer does not insult the honour of others, nor curse, nor commit Fahisha (great sins), nor is he obscene."
Going further in the Surat, Allah, the Almighty, then describes the chastity of believers and their keen interest in avoiding all that which is unlawful. So, the Most Glorious says, "and they who guard their private parts - except from their wives or those their right hands possess, for indeed, they will not be blamed. But whoever seeks beyond that, then those are the transgressors." (Al-Muminoon: 5-7).
Indeed, such qualities are amongst the ones that help preserve the purity of the community. This is why our Master Muhammad pbuh guaranteed Paradise as perpetual residence for those who maintain the purity of their limbs and gave them glad tidings of being shaded by Allah's shade on the Day of Judgment. He pbuh said, "Seven (people) will be shaded by Allah by His Shade on the Day of Resurrection when there will be no shade except His Shade. ...." Of them he mentioned: "a man who is called by a charming lady of noble birth to commit illegal sexual intercourse with her, and he says, 'I am afraid of Allah'."
After that, the blessed Ayas in Surat Al Muminoon highlighted another noble character of the true believers, which is fulfilling the trust. Allah, the Most Exalted says, "and they who are to their trusts and their promises attentive." (Al-Muminoon: 8).
Undoubtedly, fulfilling the trusts and keeping one's word has a tremendous positive effect in promoting trust amongst people in their transactions, covenants, promises and contracts. Emphasising the great standing of such quality, Allah, the Almighty, ordered Muslims to embrace it. He says, "indeed, Allah commands you to render trusts to whom they are due." (An-Nisaa: 58).
In like manner, the Prophet Pbuh denied the perfection of faith for those who are careless in fulfilling their trusts, as he said, "Indeed, he is not believer he who does not fulfil his trust, and he has no religion he who does not keep his covenant."
Certainly, those who are diligent in embracing such qualities are the winners who will be admitted to Paradise on the Day of Judgment. The Most Exalted says, "those are the inheritors. Who will inherit al-Firdaus. They will abide therein eternally." (Al-Muminoon: 10-11).
In fact, pondering upon the degrees of faith, one will find that true faith revolves around decent words of the mouth, good deeds and praiseworthy ethics. This was illustrated by the Messenger of Allah pbuh when he said, "Faith has over seventy branches, the most excellent of which is the declaration that there is no deity save Allah, and the humblest of which is the removal a harmful object from the road; and modesty is a branch of faith."   
With this in mind, let us seek Allah's favour to make us amongst the successful believers.
May Allah guide us all obey him to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
O Believers,
Please know that Allah, the Most Gracious and Sublime, has promised the believers with great recompense on the Day of Resurrection, for He says, "and Allah is going to give the believers a great reward." (An-Nisaa: 146). Moreover, the Almighty gave the believers glad tidings of attaining His gracious bounties, for He says, "and give good tidings to the believers that they will have from Allah great bounty." (Al-Ahzab: 47).
Furthermore, Allah, the Most Great, promised to take care of the believers and engulf them with His mercy and guidance. The Almighty says, "Allah is the ally of those who believe. He brings them out from darknesses into the light." (Al-Baqara: 257). As we can see, faith is a cause for protecting the believers from Allah's punishment, for the Most Exalted says, "and We saved those who believed and used to fear Allah." (Fussilat: 18).
Having known this, you are urged, Dear Believers, to nurture the character of the believers in the minds and hearts of your sons and daughters.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh in line with Allah's orders: "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
 
O Allah, we seek Your grace to make faith dear to us and beautify it in our hearts. O Allah, please also make us amongst those who are rightly guided. Indeed, You are the Lord of the Worlds.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Allah, we supplicate to You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
 
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 













