addthis_pub="newawqaf";















HH Sheikh Humaid bin Rashid Al Nuaimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Ajman, received yesterday, at Al Zaher Palace the scholars, guests of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, who came to the UAE to revive the nights of holy month of Ramadan.
The scholars expressed their deepest congratulations and greetings to HH the Ruler of Ajman, praying to Allah to grant him continued health and wellness. They also prayed to Allah to continue blessing the UAE with advancement, prosperity, security and stability under its wise leadership. 
The scholars further hailed the initiative of HH the President to revive the nights of Ramadan and deliver religious lectures around the country to introduce the correct concepts of the religion of Islam, while praying to Allah, the Almighty, to add his humanitarian and charity initiatives and work to his scale of good deeds on the Day of Judgment.
HH the Ruler of Ajman began the meeting by imploring to Allah, the Most High, to grant the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan mercy and admit him into Paradise, praising the great role and efforts of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and his brother, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and Their Highnesses, the Members of the Supreme Council the Rulers of the UAE, for their care and interest in building mosques and Quran memorisation centres as well as maintaining and providing them with all requirements and services, in addition to equipping them with the best cadres.
During the meeting, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, briefed HH Sheikh Humaid on the events of the scholars' programme to revive the nights of Ramadan, which is being executed in cooperation with the Ministry of Presidential Affairs and follow up of HH Sheikh Mansoor bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for Presidential Affairs. Under the programme, a group of elite scholars from the Arab and Islamic countries participate in raising Muslims awareness about their religious matters in Multilanguage lectures, he explained.
Dr al Kaabi also briefed HH Sheikh Humaid on the programme of preparing Emirati scholars by studying at Mohammed V University in Abu Dhabi. He thanked, on the occasion, HH the Ruler of Ajman for facilitating the opening of Ajman branch of the university for those who wish to study Shariaa sciences and be graduated as Imams and preachers.
HH Sheikh Humaid urged the scholars for highlighting the tolerance and moderation of Islam, which was sent as mercy for all humanity, while stressing to his sons, the graduates of Mohammed V University, that the role of scholars and mosque Khateebs is part of the calling to the way of Allah, the Almighty, in kindness away from extremism. He further underscored that "this way, we will show that we are a nation that seeks the best for all the people of the world."
His Highness also called upon the scholars to "give people good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam), facilitate things to them (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them, as well as to adhere to moderation principles and use Islam's tolerance as a beacon while calling for it." 
HH Sheikh Humaid extended thanks and appreciation to Awqaf and all of its officials for their sincere efforts to improve mosques and Quran memorisation centres and strive to nurture Emirati qualified cadres to support the entity's work.
Dr al Kaabi, then, expressed his heartfelt thanks and gratitude for HH's continuous interest in and great support to mosques and Quranic centres, praising his keenness in elevating the houses of Allah and affirming that HH's directives "will be an approach for us that we will translate through the initiatives included in Awqaf's strategic plan."
Dr al Kaabi emphasised that the directives of HH Sheikh Humaid to the scholars reflect the support by the UAE wise leadership to the role played by mosques. It also reflects the support to Awqaf's role in preserving the cultural accomplishments of the UAE, especially that related to religious matters and mosques, Dr al Kaabi concluded. 
 













