addthis_pub="newawqaf";















As part of the events of Waqf al Khair campaign, which Awqaf launched at the beginning of the holy month of Ramadan, the campaign's team in Al Ain visited the paediatric and internal medicine sections at Al Ain government hospital. The team distributed gifts on the patients there, expressing the sweetest words of optimism, the aim being to touch their hearts with happiness, praying to Allah to bless them with speed recovery.
The team's tours further took them to the Al Ain City municipality, offering the officials and staff gifts and promotional brochures about the campaign.
On another level, as part of the Waqf al Khair Campaign in Ras al Khaimah, the campaign's advertisements were placed on 30 taxis traveling throughout the city and its outskirts. The campaign's team also paid visits to government and local entities and department in addition to distributing printings highlighting the campaign's activities and goals.
Meanwhile, in Ajman the campaign continued its events by placing advertisements on 40 of the emirate's taxis for a period of two months. Gifts and printed matters were also distributed on all departments and entities amidst a great welcome to the campaign's objectives.
On a related note, the campaign's stands received a remarkable interaction at several commercial centres across the country, reflecting the Awqaf's aspirations in promoting the culture of charitable endowments amongst the people.
Commenting on the efforts exerted in the campaign and its sought out outcomes, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said, "The Year of Giving initiative launched by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him, has encouraged all entities and individuals to race in giving."
"This campaign is in line with such charitable approach and it highlights the culture of Waqf and the remarkable response that the campaign has received. This constitutes civilised cultural landmarks in serving the community," Dr al Kaabi concluded.  
 













