addthis_pub="newawqaf";















During the holy month of Ramadan for 1438 AH - 2017 AD, Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre has received around 65614 religious queries from the public, the majority of which were about worships, transactions and women family-related affairs.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman said, "Thanks to the unrelenting great support by the UAE wise leadership to the religious affairs in the country and society, Awqaf has succeeded to offer the highest level of its services to the community. As such, Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre turned into a beehive of activity, receiving the public's questions via phone and SMS from inside and outside the country."
"The centre was prepared for the anticipated extensive flow of religious queries during the holy month and thus worked with its full capacity, having 60 Muftis working over three shifts from 8am to 8pm every day. Those were equipped with the latest technology and other integrated means provided to them by Awqaf. Such preparations received the admiration of the scholars, guests of HH the UAE President, may Allah protect him," Dr al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi further pointed out that during their visit to the Fatwa Centre, the scholars closely learnt about the state of the art technology used in the delivery of the centre's advanced services. They were also impressed by the smart know-how that the Muftis possessed, using such technology in organising, archiving and issuing collective Fatwas that were verified scientifically and proofread in Arabic, English and Urdu, he clarified.
"It is well known that collective Fatwas are stronger, more accurate and more reliable than those issued by each Mufti separately. At this level, the approach adopted by Awqaf's official Fatwa centre is the most modern worldwide. For this reason, its services have become a point of interest and gained the trust of the public," Dr al Kaabi conclude.     
 













