addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Awqaf, in co-operation with the Foundation for the Future that is specialised in electronics, has started putting in place revolutionary solutions to reduce water consumption by 70 per cent at mosques across the UAE. This will be achieved by installing specialised electronic taps which will be supplied and installed, by the said company with a guarantee and maintenance contract for 10 years. The foundation has provided the taps as donation in response to the "Year of Giving" initiative.
On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said that the Awqaf would work with the foundation, as one of the partners supporting its projects and initiatives.
In this regard, a successful practical experiment was carried out in one of the mosques that accommodates for 500 worshippers. After installing 42 infrared electronic taps in the mosque, the meter readings showed that a single tap saved more than 70 percent of the water consumed, Dr al Kaabi added, explaining that before the faucets were installed, the consumption was eight cubic metres of water and after the installation, the consumption was only two cubic metres, a saving of 79 per cent over the agreed testing period.
Dr al Kaabi added that the foundation has begun installing these taps in the mosques in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain and Al Dhafra and would later move to the northern emirates. As many as 4,300 mosques are scheduled to replace their taps within a short timeline that should not go beyond November of 2017.
"The initiative of installing these taps would be an important national achievement at the mosques, and would further encourage the community, housewives and residential areas to adopt such an approach in water consumption. Ultimately, the culture of rationalising water consumption would become a positive behaviour embraced by all members of the community," Dr al Kaabi added.
For his part, the general director of the Foundation for the Future clarified that the interest in consuming water rationally and not wasting it has become a necessity because water is a wealth that must be preserved.
"In line with the UAE's policy to achieve the sustainable development and in co-operation with the Awqaf, we have started execution of the initiative that is aimed at reaching the global minimum per capita water consumption rate and achieving unprecedented world records," he added, concluding by stressing that concerted efforts by the foundation and the Awqaf will enable them to introduce an ideal national model in this arena.
 
 













