addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah Who made homes a source of safety and tranquillity, and a place of rest and assurance. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, in line with His orders: "and fear a Day when you will be returned to Allah . Then every soul will be compensated for what it earned, and they will not be treated unjustly." (Al-Baqara: 281).
Dear Muslims,
The blessings of Allah, the Almighty, on mankind are innumerable. Amongst the signs of the perfection of His blessings upon us is that He made for us home a peaceful retreat full of comfort and benefits. In this regard, Allah, the Exalted is He, says, "and Allah has made for you from your homes a place of rest." (An-Nahl: 80).
For this reason, when he went to his bed, the Messenger of Allah pbuh used to say: "All praise is due to Allah, who has fed us and given us to drink, and has sufficed and granted us refuge, and how many are they who have none to suffice them and none to grant them refuge."
Indeed, home is an abode of stability and tranquillity for the family as well as an oasis of safety for them. Homes are a blessing that Allah has endowed upon us for us to appreciate it and show our gratitude to Him for such a favour.
Being a key element in building one's character, home was given special care and standing in Islam. Thus, it prescribed all that which may enhance the stability and happiness of homes. For instance, in order to achieve peace at home, Allah placed between the husband and wife affection and mercy. This is because home is the place where children are raised, generations nurtured and men made. It is the first source for empathy, kindness and love.
Home is a safe haven where children cherish tranquillity amongst parents who strive to touch the hearts of their family members with happiness. Therein, each of the parents knows their duties well and tries to discharge them in the possible best manner, understanding the importance of their didactic responsibility towards their family and children.
O Servants of Allah,
This brings us to advice each other about the duties of each member of the household. The father at home is the leader, facilitator of its affairs and provider of its needs. Those are part of his responsibilities as our Master Muhammad pbuh said, "And a man is a guardian of his family and is responsible for his charges." In this sense, the guardian is the protector who is entrusted to protect his household and who fulfils his trust towards those under his guardianship.
Father strives to touch the heart of his family members with happiness. Thus, he supplicates for them using the same supplications of the father of Prophets Ibrahim pbuh saying, "my Lord, make me an establisher of prayer, and [many] from my descendants. Our Lord, and accept my supplication." (Ibrahim: 40). He also guides his family members, teach them and offer them advices, following in this in steps of the Messenger of Allah pbuh.
In order to achieve such goals, while eating together around the dining table at home, fathers should invest such times in guiding their daughters and sons. They should also follow up on their study and learning progress, cooperate with their school staff in order to nurture future generations who can hoist the flag of their homeland high, contribute to further boosting its development, protect its achievements and defend its borders.
On another level, father should help his children to choose the good company, urge them to strengthen bonds with their relatives, instil in them the love for others' good and the interest in bringing happiness to them. He is required as well to teach them to serve the best interests of their community, be loyal to their country, and preserve their authentic traditions and patriotic established principles.
Other qualities and values that father should implant in the minds and hearts of their children also include exchanging the greeting of peace with others and embracing the best of ethics.
In like manner, mother plays key role in the family, being a helpful hand alongside her husband in shouldering the household responsibilities. The Messenger of Allah pbuh said in this regard, "and a woman is a guardian in the house of her husband and is responsible for her charge."
Part of mother's responsibility is to take care of her husband's affairs, groom her children and supplicate to Allah, the Almighty, to grant them success, protect them and bless them with happiness. Truly, Imran's wife was a good example on this. She supplicated to Allah for her daughter Mariam, saying, "and I seek refuge for her in You and [for] her descendants from Satan, the expelled [from the mercy of Allah]." (Al Imran: 36).
Mother should also raise her children on virtues and noble manners. She should engulf them with her love and guide them with her life experience, offering them the best of what she has learned. Truly, this is a duty incumbent on every mother, a trust that she should fulfil and a responsibility that she should discharge towards her daughters and sons. This is because she will be accountable for them before Allah, the Almighty, on the Day of Judgment.
Furthermore, wife is recommended to help her husband to obey his parents and maintain his ties of kinship. In return, she will, by Allah's grace, attain the same reward as her husband, for the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Whoever guides (others) to an act of goodness, will have a reward similar to that of its doer."
On another level, daughters and sons are really a source of happiness at home for children are [but] adornment of the worldly life. They are the blessed fruits of stable families. For their part, like their parents, children shoulder a great responsibility in paying due respect to their elderly grandparents, for they are, truly, the blessing of the house and one cause of its happiness and liveliness. Thus, grandparents deserve to be respected and obeyed. One should attend to their needs, listen to their advices and draw lessons from their experiences.
Similarly, the children should obey their parents, respect their sisters and brothers, following the guidance of the Prophet pbuh who said, "Your mother, your father, your sister, your brother, then the next closest, and the next closet."
O Worshipers,
Having known this, what we should advise each other about next is how can tranquillity and happiness prevail at home? The answer to this question is that happiness can be found at a home where Allah's name is remembered often for Dhikr imparts tranquillity to the hearts as evidenced in Allah's saying: "unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah hearts are assured." (Ar-Raad: 28).
Indeed, a home in which Allah's name is remembered frequently, its members will cherish good life.
With this in mind, let us beseech Allah, the Almighty, to make our homes full of His remembrance, joyful with His praises, happy with His bounties, and peaceful with his generosity.
May Allah guide us all obey him to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted.
O Worshipers,
The Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "When Allah wants good (to befall) the members of a household, He will guide them to the way of gentleness (in dealing with each other)." In this respect, the types of gentleness are many. One form of gentleness is to treat helpers at home in kindness and avoid burdening them with work that they are not capable of doing.
Other ways to show kindness towards home workers is to appreciate their work, respect their feelings, consider that they are away from their home country, preserve their dignity, safeguard their rights and treat them in a noble humane manner.
Indeed, the Messenger of Allah pbuh has set a role model in this regard. With his gentleness and kind treatment to his household members, he established the most pleasant of homes and the happiest of families.
You are urged, therefore, dear worshipers, to preserve the blessing of home and appreciate its precious value. You should also nurture such value in the hearts and minds of your daughters and sons.
That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the Most Sublime, says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, ""For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we implore to You to continue blessing our homes and families with happiness.
 
O Lord You have blessed us with a homeland of tolerance and love, so we seek Your favour to make forgiveness amongst our qualities and tolerance our character.
May Allah make the UAE a country of knowledge and civilisation, and a nation of building, prosperity, cleanliness and beauty.
O Allah, we supplicate to You to provide for us the love of reading, attachment to books and passion for seeking knowledge.
O Allah, please make our tongues wet with Your remembrance, busy with uttering Your praise and kind to Your Creation.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
O Allah, may we ask You for all that is good, in this world and in the Hereafter. O Allah, we seek Your favour to admit us, our parents, whoever has done a favour to us and all Muslims to Your Paradise.
May Allah grant success and continued health and care to the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
 
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on our parents, relatives and whoever has done a favour to us.
O Allah, make this gathering one of compassion, and our dispersion after it one that is infallible. O Allah, do not let anyone amongst us be deprived or desperate.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
Our Lord, give us in this world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire.
O Servants of Allah "indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded." (An-Nahl: 90).
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you. Allah says, "and establish prayer. Indeed, prayer prohibits immorality and wrongdoing, and the remembrance of Allah is greater. And Allah knows that which you do." (Al-Ankaboot: 45).
 
 













