addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf and Dubai Financial Market have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) as part of the two sides' efforts to facilitate and develop cooperation between them in fields of mutual interests.
Within the cooperation framework between the two parties, Dubai Financial Market (DFM) will issue an investor number in the name of Awqaf. The number will be specifically used to manage the securities endowments.
The framework will also define the method of receiving cash profits pertaining to the said investor number where the DFM will execute the requests for transferring the funds from the investor account to the charity Waqf account. At the end of each month, the DFM will send a transaction report to Awqaf briefing it on the transactions and the processes related to the Waqf securities.
The MoU further highlighted the importance of coordination and cooperation between the two sides with a view to increase their activities, support all that may serve the best interests of the UAE society at all levels, achieve sustainability of the Waqf funding and its development in compliance with the objectives of Islam. The MoU is also aimed at extending cooperation bridges by exchanging skills and expertise in areas of finance, endowments and investment.
The MoU was signed on behalf of the DFM by HE Essa Abdul Fattah Kazim, Chairman (First party), while HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, signed on behalf of Awqaf (Second party).
In a statement at the end of the signing, Dr Al Kaabi underlined the significance of the MoU saying, "Inspired by the Year of Giving launched by HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, this MoU with the DFM is aimed at keeping in pace with the latest procedures and processes related to developing the investments of endowments in the UAE. It also seeks to promote the charitable and civilised mission of endowment in the community and cement it amongst the future generations."
This MoU sets the finest example for establishing partnership between Awqaf and the DFM in terms of activities and events that translate the values of giving in the "Year of Giving" cherished by the UAE, the aim being to touch the hearts of its loyal people with happiness. It also supports the UAE's humanitarian initiatives inside and outside the country, Dr Al Kaabi added.
Worth mentioning, the MoU comes as part of the strategic partnerships that Awqaf establishes with several financial institutions in the UAE, such as the MoU signed with Abu Dhabi Securities on April 11, 2017. The said MoU was aimed at developing cooperation and facilitating procedures between Awqaf and the DFM.
For his part, commenting on the occasion, HE Essa Kazim said, "The DFM is keenly interested in laying down the foundations of cooperation with all entities and institutions in the UAE in a manner that is conducive to achieve the sought out goals and serve the public interests. This can be possible through diligent efforts that are aimed at offering frameworks suitable for concerting efforts of various entities in order to enhance work environment and explore new development perspectives."
 "In this context, we are glad to sign this MoU with the Awqaf, providing a convenient structure for organising relationship between the two sides concerning all mutual transactions and procedures as well as exchanging knowledge and expertise. To this effect, this MoU allows adding the Awqaf as an investor listed in the DFM, enabling it to manage its securities endowments and receive their dividends either via bank transfer or as a direct credit to its iVESTOR card," HE Kazim concluded.
On a related note, immediately after the MoU signing, HE Essa Kazim donated ten thousand shares in favour of Waqf account at Awqaf.   
 













