addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf announced its decision to grant a grace period of one week for the pilgrims to choose new Hajj campaign operators in place of the ones that expressed inability to fulfil their contractual commitments. The period begins from the date of notifying the same to Awqaf by the Hajj operators. Contracted pilgrims will receive back the payments they made to such operators.
On a related note, the Hajj packages for this season ranged between nine thousand and fifty five thousand Dirhams following the decision taken by Awqaf to stop the quota system of 33 pilgrims for each Hajj campaign. As a result, the majority of the Hajj operators announced competitive packages that ranged between 20000 to 25000 Dirhams for 4-person room at 5-star hotels, recording a decrease of 30 per cent compared to the packages of last season.
The new adopted system that allows up to 150 pilgrims per each Hajj operator has helped some of the campaigns to meet their quota and close registration. Yet, a number of other campaigns could only attract little number of pilgrims due to either high prices or poor services, a matter that forced them to express inability to continue with their contractual obligations.
In this regard, Awqaf announced on its website's homepage the list of all accredited Hajj operators in the UAE along with their prices, methods of travel and telephone numbers. The campaigns are classified according to price and hotel, thereby making it easy for pilgrims to choose the operator of their choice.
Concerning prices, one of the campaigns offered the 4-person room in a 5-star hotel at a price of 20000 Dirhams, a decrease of 13000 Dirhams compared to last season's prices which reached to 33000 Dirhams. The double room price dropped from 55000 Dirhams last year to 31500 Dirhams this year in hotels of the same grade and that are close to the Haram (Grand Mosque) in Mecca.
On the other hand, part of the campaigns divided their prices into 5-star and 3-star hotels, the aim being to attract the largest number of pilgrims possible. Their prices ranged between 10000 and 12000 Dirhams for a four-person room at a 3-star hotel, around 13000 Dirhams for the three-person room, while the double room price did not exceed 16000 Dirhams.
Commenting on the occasion, the head of Al Sadra campaign estimated the drop in prices at more than 30 per cent, citing the Awqaf's decision to increase the quota of pilgrims for each operator to 150 as the reason for the drop. This contributed to promoting competitiveness, drop in the prices and, thus attraction of more number of customers, he added.
 













