addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Awqaf began on Wednesday, July 26, procedures of auditing the contracts that pilgrims concluded with the accredited Hajj campaign operators for this year's season (1438AH - 2017AD). The move came after the campaign operators have completed entering the contracts (accommodation, transportation, supplies and air travel) in the electronic system. July 25 was the deadline for entering the said information into the system.
On July 26, the contracts verification committee held a meeting with the Hajj operators in Abu Dhabi and Al Ain at Awqaf's head office in Abu Dhabi with the aim of ensuring that data was correct and entered appropriately as well as correcting errors if any. Meanwhile, the committee is set to complete the same process with the Hajj campaign operators in Dubai and the Northern Emirates.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, lauded support by the UAE wise leadership to the Official Hajj Mission, the aim being to enable it to provide all capabilities and facilities that are conducive to touch the UAE pilgrims' hearts with happiness. Dr al Kaabi further pointed out the remarkable efforts and services in this regard by the government of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques.
At the level of internal audit, Dr al Kaabi explained that the "preparations for the Hajj season and the relevant procedures are being done smoothly in accordance with the set out plans and programmes and within the specified timeframe. As such, once the contracts' verification is completed, Awqaf will grant the main accredited Hajj operators permits for their administrative and service staff, in addition to those pertaining to accompanying preachers and physicians."
Meanwhile, as far as auditing in the holy sites is concerned, the auditing and inspection committee will leave to Mecca and Medina in order to check on the level and quality of pilgrims' accommodation and ensure its compliance with the agreed terms. To this effect, 4-star accommodation and above will be approved, as well as the buildings which have been approved in the last Hajj season and which have no alterations made thereto.
Inspection will be conducted on hotels, towers and buildings. In addition to that, the committee will audit and approve contracts relating to supplies, security, cleaning, reception, air flights and transportation. Moreover, a thorough inspection will be conducted on air conditioning systems, water tanks and backup power generators.  
 













