addthis_pub="newawqaf";















With the advent of this year's Hajj season, Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre has started preparations to answer the public's queries. On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi explained that the pilgrims' awareness about the rulings pertaining to Hajj rituals were considered as priority prior to their heading to the holy places to perform this great pillar of Islam.
From this perspective, Dr al Kaabi added, Awqaf gives special attention to promoting pilgrims' awareness about such rules by dispatching preachers along with the Hajj campaigns and Muftis to accompany the Official Hajj Mission in light of the standing of the Official Fatwa Centre as the only reference for the UAE pilgrims. 
Thus, over the coming period, as the Hajj season as well as Eid Al Adha are approaching, the number of religious queries received by the Fatwa centre is expected to see an increase with an estimation of about 3000 questions per day, said Dr al Kaabi.
In light of this, the Fatwa centre has taken certain measures to cope with the expected increase, Dr al Kaabi pointed out, explaining that these actions included:

 Organising shifts for Muftis and increasing the number of Muftis at times during which the public's queries are expected to be at peak.
 Fatwa Centre will dispatch a group of Muftis to accompany the UAE Official Hajj Mission. Those will assume the task of answering pilgrims' queries pertinent to Hajj ritual as well as matters related to contemporary issues. Additionally, the UAE Hujjaj Affairs office allocated a call centre to serve pilgrims in the holy places, the aim being to help them to perform their Hajj rites correctly. 
 UAE Official Fatwa Centre organised workshops and training sessions for Muftis in order to discuss new religious queries related to Hajj. The aim was to qualify Muftis on how to deal with them with the goal of reaching a consensus amongst them and avoiding inconsistency. 
 Muftis will also be available at airports and other exit points to answer pilgrims' questions before their departure to the holy places.
 The Fatwa centre will further hold sessions in mosques in order to answer pilgrims' questions and encourage them to think deeply about the meanings of Hajj and how to prepare for performing its rites, the latter being a great act of worship for Muslims.
 For this purpose, Awqaf had printed several references on Hajj and Umra Fiqh and frequently asked Fatwas. They will be distributed to pilgrims before heading to the holy places. New to this season, Awqaf also developed the pilgrim's kit to include a special booklet about "Woman-specific Hajj rituals". 
 In collaboration with Abu Dhabi Quran Radio, the Fatwa centre will air as part of the "Yastaftounaka" (they are asking you) programme a time slot for discussing Hajj Fiqh and answering questions related to Hajj rites. 














