addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE Official Hajj Mission is set to leave to the holy places tomorrow from Abu Dhabi International Airport, according to a statement issued by Awqaf yesterday.
On the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, said the UAE pilgrims will leave to Saudi Arabia from 17 to 28 August 2017, adding that the UAE official Hajj mission is fully prepared to receive them in cooperation with and follow-up by the Hajj campaign operators, ensuring to offer them the best of services and guarantee their safety and comfort at all times. He further clarified that the number of UAE pilgrims this season is 6228.
 
Preparations
On another level, Major General Jasem Mohammed al Marzouqi, General Commander of Civil Defence at the Ministry of Interior, affirmed the preparedness of the civil defence to assume its duties related to pilgrims and commitment to ensure the highest degrees of safety for individuals and properties too. This, he said, can be achieved through implementation of the best practices in the field of prevention and crisis and disaster management, as well as achievement of the fastest response time in case of emergency.
On a related note, the General Command of the Civil Defence, in coordination with its departments, organised the "Safe Hajj and safety of Pilgrims" campaign which was launched in cooperation with the Security Media Department at the General Directorate of Security Support in the Ministry of interior. The initiative is aimed at promoting pilgrims' awareness about procedures related to public safety and fire prevention, al Marzouqi highlighted.
In a press statement yesterday, al Marzouqi said that the launch of the initiative came within the framework of the main awareness raising plan that was launched by Civil Defence in the beginning of 2017 under the motto "Your safety is our aim", which emanated from the ministry of interior's strategy. The aim is to promote the culture of prevention and safety amongst the members of the community and protect souls and properties from dangerous risks, he explained.
Al Marzouqi further underlined the importance of concerting efforts and coordination between civil defence and other competent entities during Hajj season, the aim being to offer all kinds of support and care to pilgrims travelling through the Western Region, reflecting collaboration and team spirit.
 
Tips and guidelines
Concerning pilgrims' safety, the General Command of Civil Defence has released a set of guidelines, instructions and advices for pilgrims, urging them to adhere to them in order to protect them from all kinds of accidents and ensure the public safety. Such precautionary safety procedures include setting fire only at places specified for that, exploring the routes leading to the camp and locating their entrances and exits, avoiding walking between cars in tunnels, using instead the roads specified for this purpose.
The civil defence instructions also warned pilgrims against setting on the pedestrian pathways during rush times as this may cause them serious injuries. Pilgrims should also ensure to use umbrellas to shield themselves from harsh sun and rain, be careful while climbing up or down buses, avoid rushing and allow priority for service and emergency vehicles while on the road.
According to the civil defence guidelines, pilgrims are also required to locate the nearest emergency exits and how to reach to them, in addition to the need to keep emergency lanes free from any obstacles. They should also show calmness, help the elders to exit the camp and avoid places that are crowded with pilgrims, for congestion may hinder traffic, causing increase in the ratio of gases emitted from cars' exhausts that may have negative impacts on health, in addition to impeding the movement of ambulances. Pilgrims are further advised to wear medical respiratory masks in order not to inhale harmful gases that may circulate in the air.
 
Avoiding congestion areas
Furthermore, the civil defence recommended pilgrims to hold upon seeing congestion inside tunnels so as to avoid crowding. In case of any emergency cases inside tunnels, pilgrims are advised not to crowd at the entrance of the tunnel, and instead to move away from the place until the emergency situation was managed. Meanwhile, instructions related to car accidents where a car catches fire, the civil defence recommended that all the passengers should evacuate the car and head outside the tunnel.
 
According to Astronomical calculations, Friday, September 1 is the first day of Eid
On another level, a number of Muslim countries started today sighting the crescent moon of Dhul Hijja 1438 AH, whereas the majority of other Muslim countries will be sighting the moon tomorrow. In this regard, Engineer Mohammed Shawkat Odeh, Director of the International Astronomical Centre in Abu Dhabi, said that sighting the crescent moon today was impossible in all the Muslim world because the moon on this day sets before the sunset in these countries, in addition to that the top centric conjunction occurs after the Sunset. Moreover, today, there will be a full solar eclipse that will be observed in the USA, he further clarified.
Odeh added that tomorrow the crescent is expected to be easily visible by naked eye in most Muslim countries; hence August 23 is expected to be the first day of Dhul Hijja. Accordingly, the attendance at the Mount of Arafat will fall on August 31 and Eid Al Adha will fall on September 1st , 2017, Odeh concluded.
 













