addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The first batch of 6,228 UAE pilgrims has arrived at Medina Airport in the holy sites to perform this year's Hajj rituals.
The UAE pilgrims were received by the UAE preparatory Hajj mission members, who had completed all necessary preparations for receiving the pilgrims in Mecca, Medina and the holy places, ensuring their comfort and safety and easing their entry and housing procedures while making sure that the campaigns were prepared to provide all the required services.
Earlier, the preparatory Hajj mission had received and fully equipped the camps in Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifah ahead of the arrival of the official mission. It also completed the necessary preparations for implementing the contracts concluded with the Hajj operators. As such, the camps allocated to the UAE pilgrims were provided with enough air conditioners and power generators of appropriate sizes in anticipation of the heat waves prevailing in the region, though heat resistant tents were pitched this year. The camps were also equipped with sufficient service facilities.
Meanwhile, the UAE official Hajj mission announced that 800 pilgrims arrived in Medina yesterday, while more 1,450 pilgrims are set to arrive today under the auspices and supervision of 19 campaigns. The residential premises of the UAE pilgrims in Medina and Mecca were also equipped with all the services and facilities necessary for pilgrims to perform their rituals smoothly and peacefully.
As soon as they arrived, the official mission committees started to fulfill the tasks assigned to them before receiving the UAE Hajj campaigns in the holy sites and provide the best services to the pilgrims. To this effect, the mission said all the preparations were completed in Mecca and Medina as the mission members started to co-ordinate and hold preparatory meetings, the aim being to provide the best services that are conducive to touch the Emirati pilgrims' hearts with happiness. This is in line with the UAE prudent leadership's vision of ensuring the happiness of citizens wherever they were.
The UAE official Hajj mission arrived at King Abdulaziz International Airport in Jeddah the day before yesterday. It was received there by Arif Al Taboor, Consul General of the UAE in Jeddah, and Hamad Al Mualla, Deputy Head of Official Hajj Mission, in addition to the consulate staff and members of the preparatory committee.
 
 













