addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE Official Hajj Mission has started the distribution of 153,000 meals to pilgrims in memory of the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the founder and builder of the UAE, may Allah rest his soul in peace.
The UAE Hajj Affairs Office is overseeing the phased distribution of meals on pilgrims from all round the world, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf Chairman and Head of the UAE Official Hajj Mission, said, noting that 20,000 meals had already been distributed on pilgrims near the Prophet's Mosque in Medina as a first stage. More 50,000 meals are scheduled to be distributed on pilgrims on the Day of Arafat in addition to 30,000 meals in Muzdalifah and 25,000 meals in Mina camps during the days of Tashriq, Dr Al Kaabi added.
"The Hajj Affairs Office is closely following up the delivery, storage and distribution of these meals. This is overseen by a specialised committee to ensure offering healthy meals that are rich in nutrients and provide the pilgrims with the energy necessary to help them complete their Hajj rites and be up to the physical efforts exerted during such blessed days", Dr Al Kaabi explained.
The meals are being distributed in a horizontal style where the delivery vehicles are deployed in a way to reach all the areas where pilgrims gather, he pointed out, adding that such style would make it easy for the meals to be distributed without any burden or delay.
"All measures have been taken to ensure that all meals are compliant with the health and safety standards. To this effect, there is a strict control on the way these meals are stored and distributed. Preventive measures are also being taken, making sure that the meals are absolutely fit for consumption at the time of distribution. This is aimed at protecting the health of pilgrims and maintaining their safety, Dr Al Kaabi said, concluding that the mission takes all possible steps to guarantee that the largest number of pilgrims benefit from the meals which are being distributed in memory of the late Sheikh Zayed.  
 













