addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Marking the International Women's Day, Emirati women have taken the lead in local, regional and international assemblies. Over the past four decades since our young state came into existence, the UAE wise leadership has enabled Emirati women side by side with men to play their national and civilizational roles in such an excellent manner that the UAE leadership and community were proud of, said HE Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, in a statement of the occasion.
Her Highness Sheikha Fatima Bint Mubarak, Mother of the UAE, may Allah protect her, led the ambitions of Emirati women and pushed them forward until they became extremely empowered. As a result, great achievements are currently being witnessed in all fields of the prosperous national boom, making us proud of our homeland and keen on building its modern edifices, Dr Al Kaabi added.
Dr al Kaabi continued saying, "It was much to Awqaf's pleasure that HH Sheikha Fatima met with the first batch of its female graduates who attained higher degrees in various Islamic studies two years ago. The graduates themselves were pleased at HH Sheikha Fatima's directives for them to be engaged in work and disseminate knowledge and guidance in mosques, schools and houses, armed with the methodology of moderation and intellectual openness to the culture of modern life."
"Let Emirati women feel proud of the Mother of the UAE HH Sheikha Fatima Bint Mubarak, may Allah protect her, as a leading figure and an example of dedication and ambition. These should be regarded as incentives for Emirati women to play their national, humanitarian and educational roles," Al Kaabi further emphasised.
The Awqaf is quite aware of the important roles played by Emirati women; they worked for all Islamic affairs departments and strengthened their mission in the society thanks to their high and outstanding qualifications, be it in administrative jobs or in preaching, issuing fatwas, completing academic researches and participating in seminars and conferences. They even proved they were efficient in leading various Awqaf departments and similarly all UAE institutions," added Dr Al Kaabi, concluding by saying, "Thank you Mother of the UAE, the example and leading figure for all Emirati girls."
 













