addthis_pub="newawqaf";















To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (Word file)
To download Friday sermon (Khutba) in English (PDF file)
To download lesson in Urdu (PDF file)
First Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Most Great, the Most High, the Possessor of Perfection and Glory. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the Servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his pure blessed family and companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
As to what follows,
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him the Most Exalted, for it is an advice for the former and the later people. Indeed, glad tidings for those who listen to the sermon attentively. The Prophet pbuh said, "Whoever performs ablution in a perfect way, then he comes to the Friday (prayer), and he listens and keeps silence, then whatever (sin) was between that and (the last) Friday are forgiven for him, in addition to three days. And whoever touches the pebbles, he has engaged in Laghw (useless activity causing interruption)."
O Worshipers,
Please know that Allah, the Most Exalted and High, is the One who is the Most Great and Glorified, for the Almighty says, "and to Him belongs [all] grandeur within the heavens and the earth." (Al-Jathiya: 37). With His Greatness and Competence, Allah prevails over all His Creation. The Almighty says, "Exalted is He; He is Allah, the One, the Prevailing." (Az-Zumar: 4).
Moreover, with His Competence, Allah is ever grander than all things, as He says, "the Grand, the Exalted." (Ar-Raad: 9). Allah has encompassed all things in knowledge, and thus all His servants are submissive to Him with their own will or by obligation. The Most Exalted says, "and to Allah prostrates whoever is within the heavens and the earth, willingly or by compulsion." ((Ar-Raad: 15).
The Most High, therefore, ordered His noble Prophet pbuh to sanctify and glorify Him, for the Blessed is His Name says, "and your Lord glorify." (Al-Muddathir: 3). The Most Exalted has further commanded us to glorify Him greatly, for He says, "and glorify Him with [great] glorification." (Al-Israa: 111). This means to glorify Him in perfect manner. In this sense, saying "Allahu Akbar" (Allah is the Most Great) is the most eloquent expression that the Arabs use to glorify and praise Allah.
O Who Glorify Allah,
Knowing this, it is good to advise each other on the merits of Takbir (glorifying Allah). The virtues of Takbir in the sight of Allah the Almighty are enormous and He has attributed to it an honourable status. The reason is that Takbir is amongst the best of speech and the most loved by Allah the Almighty.
An illustration of this can be seen in the following Hadith. It was narrated that the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "The words dearer to Allah are four: 'Exalted is Allah and all praise is due to Allah. There is no deity save Allah, and Allah is the Most Great.' It does not matter which one you say first."
It is also good to know that the merits of Takbir are many. One of its great benefits is that the gates of heaven open up for it. This is evidenced in the following Hadith.
It was narrated that Ibn Omar, may Allah be pleased with him said, "We were establishing the prayer with the Messenger of Allah pbuh when a man among the people said, 'Allahu akbar kabira wal-ḥamdu Lillahi kathira wa subḥana Llahi bukratan wa aṣīlā (Allah is the Most Great indeed, and to Allah goes all the praise. And Glory is to Allah eventide and in the morning).'
So the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, 'Who is the one who said such and such?' So a man amongst the people said, 'I did, O Messenger of Allah pbuh.' Thereupon, he pbuh said, 'I was amazed at it. The gates of heaven opened up for it.'" Ibn Omar said, "I have nevwe abandoned them since I heard the Messenger of Allah pbuh saying that."
Another benefit of Takbir is that it brings goodness to the one who says it in this world and in the Hereafter. This is because Takbir is one of causes of getting one's supplications answered by Allah, the Almighty. On this account, it was narrated that a man came to the Messenger of Allah pbuh and said, "Teach me the words that I should engage in saying." The Prophet pbuh said, "Say: There is no deity save Allah, having no associates. Allah is the Most Great indeed, and to Allah all the praise is due. And exalted is Allah, Lord of the worlds. And there is no Might and Power but that of Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Wise."
The man said, "These all (glorify) my Lord; but what about me?" The Prophet pbuh said, "Say: O Allah, please grant me Your forgiveness, have mercy on me, guide me to righteousness and provide me with sustenance."
On another level, whoever recognise the meaning and the virtues of Takbir will definitely realise that it is amongst the greatest Dhikr in reward. About it, Umar Ibn Al Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "Saying 'Allahu Akbar' is better that this world and whatever is there in it." Truly, whoever recites Takbir while knowing its meaning and virtues, he will, by Allah's grace, be given glad tidings of entering Paradise as his perpetual dwelling.
In this regard, it was reported that the Prophet pbuh said, "There is no one who says Takbir except he will be given glad tidings." It was said to him, "O Messenger of Allah! Will he be given glad tidings of entering Paradise?" He pbuh said, "Yes."
So, congratulations for those who make their tongues wet with glorifying Allah at all times.
O Servants of Allah,
This calls for a question on when it is recommended to recite Takbir. The answer to this question is that we say Takbir at all times. By saying Takbir, we remember our Lord and thank Him for the bounties he has endowed upon us. In fact, Allah, the Almighty, prescribed it in many of the acts of worship and obedience that are conducive to draw the believers closer to their Lord.
For instance, we should say Takbir during prayer, when we observe fasting, while performing Hajj and when slaughtering the sacrifice. As such, when the Muezzin calls for prayer, he begins with Tabkir. Likewise, we begin our prayer with Takbir. About prayer, the Messenger of Allah pbuh said, "Takbir (saying: Allah is Most Great) makes (all acts which break prayer) unlawful and Taslim (uttering the salutation) makes (all such acts) lawful."
 
For another, at the end of Ramadan and the beginning of Eid Al Fitr, Allah, the Almighty, has ordered us to recite Takbir, for He says, "and [wants] for you to complete the period and to glorify Allah for that [to] which He has guided you; and perhaps you will be grateful." (Al-Baqara: 185).
In like manner, Allah, the Almighty, enjoined us to say Takbir in the first day of Eid Al Adha upon slaughtering the sacrifice. The Most Exalted says, "their meat will not reach Allah, nor will their blood, but what reaches Him is piety from you. Thus have We subjected them to you that you may glorify Allah for that [to] which He has guided you; and give good tidings to the doers of good." (Al-Hajj: 37).
Amongst the other times in which we are recommended to say Takbir is when we are on travel, following in this the tradition of the Messenger of Allah pubh. When he pbuh sat on his camel to go out on a journey, he said, "Allah is Most Great" three times.
On the same matter, Jabir Ibn Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with him, said, "Whenever we went up a place we would say, 'Allahu Akbar (i.e. Allah is Most Great)', and whenever we went down a place we would say, 'Subhan Allah (Exalted is Allah)'."
More to the point, one other merit of saying "Allah is Most Great" is that it opens the doorways of hope. So, if a person says it with sincere belief in its meaning at times of hardship, he will be reminding himself of Allah's Might and Competence, His Exalt and Greatness. The Most Exalted says, "but Allah is not to be caused failure by anything in the heavens or on the earth. Indeed, He is ever Knowing and Competent." (Fatir: 44). 
With this in mind, let us pray to Allah, the Almighty, to make our tongues wet with His remembrance and our hearts live with His praise.
May Allah guide us all obey him to obey Him and obey His Messenger Muhammad pbuh and obey those He have commanded us to obey in line with His orders: "O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you." (An-Nisaa: 59).
 
May Allah direct us all to the blessings of the Glorious Quran and the Sunna of His Messenger pbuh.
I say this and ask Allah for forgiveness for me and you, so invoke Him for forgiveness, for He is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful.
Second Sermon
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds. I bear witness that there is no deity save Allah, having no associates. I also bear witness that our Master Muhammad is the servant of Allah and His Messenger. May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon ou­­r Master Muhammad, his pure family, companions, and all those who follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
I urge you, O servants of Allah, and myself to be aware that you are asked to obey Him, the Most High and Exalted, and to glorify Him frequently for this is amongst His symbols. The Most Great says, "and whoever honours the symbols of Allah - indeed, it is from the piety of hearts." (Al-Hajj: 32).
Indeed, by glorifying Allah, Muslims express their thanks to Him, the Most Exalted, for guiding them to the path of righteousness and for granting them success to obey Him. We are witnessing days in which it is recommended to engage much in glorifying Allah and celebrating His Greatness, especially after the prescribed prayers. One should do so untill the afternoon of the fourth day of Eid Al Adha.
In these days, we should say, "Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar. La Illaha Illa Llah. Wa Llahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Wa Lillahil Hamd. (Allah is the Most Great, three times. There is no deity save Allah. And Allah is the Most Great and to Allah all praise is due."  
  That is said, please bear in mind that you are instructed to invoke peace and blessings on the Prophet pbuh. Allah, the Most Sublime, says, "indeed, Allah confers blessing upon the Prophet, and His angels [ask Him to do so]. O you who have believed, ask [Allah to confer] blessing upon him and ask [Allah to grant him] peace." (Al-Ahzab: 56).
On the same matter, the Prophet pbuh said, "For everyone who invokes a blessing on me will receive ten blessings from Allah."
O Allah, please confer Your blessings and grant peace upon our Prophet Muhammad pbuh, his family and all of the companions.
O Allah, we seek Your favour to bless for us this day and make it a witness for us (on the Day of Judgment). O Allah, we implore to You to grant us peace of mind, good living and acceptance of our good deeds. O Allah, we supplicate to You to accept our prayer, Sadaqa (charity), Takbir and sacrifices.
 O Lord You have blessed us with a homeland of tolerance and love, so we seek Your favour to make forgiveness amongst our qualities and tolerance our character.
May Allah increase us in happiness, tranquillity and delight. O Allah, please continue blessing our beloved homeland, homes, families and relatives with happiness.
May Allah have mercy on the honourable martyrs of our country and those of the coalition and gather them with the righteous. May Allah make their dwelling with the ones upon whom Allah has bestowed favour of the prophets and the steadfast affirmers of truth, O the Most Gracious the Most Forgiving.
 O Allah, please grant the best reward for the families of the martyrs and offer them patience and solace. May Allah grant victory to the soldiers of the Arab Coalition who gathered to restore the rights to their owners. O Lord, please be by their side and guide the Yemeni people to everything that is good. O Allah, make them rally for the word of truth and legitimacy, and bless them with welfare and stability, O the Most Generous.
O Lord, we beseech You to bless all of the Muslim countries and the whole world with stability and peace.
May Allah be pleased with the Rightly Guided Caliphs: Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman and Ali, all of the Companions, and all those follow them in righteousness till the Day of Judgment.
May Allah make patience our path while striving to innovate, seek knowledge and high status, serve our nation and keep its flag fluttering high in the sky.
 
O Allah, we ask You to bless the UAE in its nature and increase it in delight and beauty. O Allah, we supplicate to You to write good deeds in the record of whoever sowed the seeds of welfare in the UAE. Indeed, You are the Most Merciful of the merciful.
O Lord, please provide women with tranquillity, success and high standing.
May Allah guide the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan to all that is good and protect him under His care. O Allah, please also grant him continued health and wellbeing. May Allah also ensure success to his Vice-President, trustworthy Crown Prince and his brothers, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates.
O Allah, please forgive all of the Muslims, men and women, living and dead. May Allah have mercy on Sheikh Zayed, Sheikh Maktoum and the Late UAE Sheikhs. O Lord, forgive and show mercy on them and bless them with Your kindness and satisfaction.
We pray to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds, to protect the UAE against any of temptations, both apparent and hidden, and continue blessing the UAE with safety and security.
O Allah, please grant us wisdom in our speech and in our deeds. O Allah, please make us amongst those who fulfil their promises and are committed to their covenants. Indeed, You are the Possessor of Glory and Honour.
Remember Allah and He will remember you. Be grateful of His benevolence and He will increase His blessings to you.
Please stand for prayer.
 













