addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE Official Hajj Mission yesterday held a meeting in Arafat camp with campaign owners, Hajj contractors and administrators, during which the campaign owners received the accommodation plan and mechanism relating to pilgrims in Mina, Arafat and Muzdalifa.
The arrangements and timings for the movement of pilgrims by buses and cars pertaining to campaigns operators or by the holy sites train on the Day of Tarwiya through to their completion of rituals and return to the UAE were also included in the plan.
The plans set for ensuring the safety of pilgrims and providing them with the highest level of comfort and reassurance while performing their Hajj rites and moving from one holy site to another one were also discussed together with the alternative plans in emergency cases.
Meanwhile, the campaign opertors received the holy sites train bracelets for distribution on the pilgrims, who were instructed to remove their bracelets only after they have completed performance of the rituals.
Stressing its keenness on making a success of the Hajj season through constructive collaboration with the campaign operators, the Official Hajj Mission announced that the camps in the holy sites were ready to receive the pilgrims as all efforts were made for them to perform their Hajj rituals easily and smoothly and return home safely.
On the other hand, the inspection committee of the Official Hajj Mission yesterday inspected the Hajj campaigns in Mecca to check if appropriate care and excellent services were being provided to the UAE pilgrims.
The committee visited the hotels to ensure that proper accommodation, clean restaurants and high-quality meals were provided to the pilgrims and that medical clinics were ready to receive them.
It also inspected other facilities like the mosques and public utility halls to ensure that maximum care was provided to the UAE pilgrims to enable them to perform their Hajj rites most conveniently.
Commenting on the occasion, Dr Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman and Head of the Official Hajj Mission, said, "Through these inspection visits, the Awqaf is seeking to know how far the UAE pilgrims feel comfortable and happy with the campaign they have contracted. This is based on the directives of the UAE wise leadership which stresses the need to look after the UAE pilgrims and touch their hearts with happiness as well as to ensure their comfort while performing their Hajj rites."
 













