addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The UAE pilgrims will start performing their Hajj rituals today, Wednesday 8th Dhul Hijja, by heading to Mina for Tarwiya and spending the night there following the example of the Prophet Muhammad pbuh. The pilgrims will then move to Arafat before returning to Mina again and staying overnight in Muzdalifah to throw the Jamarat during the Days of Tashriq.
The UAE pilgrims are fine and the committees affiliated to the Official Hajj Mission have completed their preparations for the pilgrims to perform their Hajj rituals smoothly and peacefully, HE Mohammed Matar Al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman and Head of the Official Hajj Mission, said, adding that the pilgrims were moving to Mina this morning for Tarwiya.
All the campaigns in the holy sites are committed to providing maximum comfort to the pilgrims, while the committees affiliated to the Official Hajj Mission are doing their best to create a better atmosphere for the pilgrims, Dr Al Kaabi pointed out, stressing that the UAE astute leadership is following closely the conditions of the UAE pilgrims and is keenly interested in supporting the efforts of the Official Hajj Mission, both materially and morally.
The Official Hajj Mission is currently doubling its efforts to serve the pilgrims by meeting all their needs and creating the best atmosphere for them to perform their Hajj rituals conveniently and smoothly in line with the objectives and vision of the UAE wise leadership necessitating that special care is provided to the pilgrims, said Dr al Kaabi.
Meanwhile, al Kaabi inspected the camps allocated for the UAE pilgrims in Mina and Arafat and was briefed on the progress of work and the facilities and services provided to some 6,228 pilgrims from the UAE.
Underlining the UAE prudent leadership's keen interest in providing maximum care to the UAE pilgrims and meeting their needs in all Hajj stages, enabling them to feel comfortable and happy, Dr Al Kaabi pointed out that this year's Arafat camp is marked by its high cooling capacity, which is in line with the world's best specifications.
He explained that the cooling capacity used in all the camp is up to 2,435 tons, this being the most used capacity in all Arafat camps, which is generated by 170 cooling units of 5-25 tons each, noting that the main tents are served by 4 cooling units of 100 tons and that the temperature in them ranges between 16 and 18 degrees Celsius.
In the meantime, the Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation yesterday organised in Mecca a ceremony for 400 pilgrims from 98 countries who were sent to the holy sites to perform their Hajj rituals at its expense.  During the ceremony, Mohammed Al Qubaisi, Hajj Mission Officer, delivered a welcome speech in which he congratulated the pilgrims on their arrival to perform Hajj and extended the greetings of HH Sheikh Nahyan Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Chairman of the Board.
On their part, the Foundation's pilgrims prayed to Allah the Almighty to add their Hajj to the late Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan's balance of good deeds, to grant the UAE President HH Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan health and wellness, to protect the UAE and continue blessing it with safety, security, stability and prosperity.
 













