addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In a press briefing last Monday, the Ministry of Presidential Affairs announced the launch of "Hijri Unified Calendar Project" at the UAE level. The initiative is in line with the aspirations of HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, and HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. It also follows the directives of HH Sheikh Mansoor bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs.
Speaking on the occasion, HE Ahmed Jumaa al Zaabi, Deputy Minister of Presidential Affairs and chairman of the council of trustees of the Shaikh Zayed Grand Mosque, announced the introduction of the first version of the Unified Hijri Calendar of 1439.
HE al Zaabi explained that the unified lunar calendar was prepared in keeping with the scientific religious and astronomical principles through specialised committees and work teams comprising a group of Arab and Islamic scholars, specialists in physics, space and astronomy from UAE's Awqaf, the Abu Dhabi Judicial Department, Dubai's Islamic Affairs & Charitable Activities Department, Sharjah Islamic Affairs and Endowments, Sharjah Centre for Astronomy and Space Sciences, Arab Union for Astronomy and Space Sciences, Emirates Association of Astronomy and the International Astronomical Centre.
Those work teams in addition to a field research group have conducted a number of studies over three years and laid down a number of standards that were consistent with the international ones. Those criteria were also based on the recommendations of Dubai Forum for prayer time standards and the Sharjah Forum for prayer time criteria which were attended by renowned religious and astronomical specialists at local, Arab and Islamic levels, HE al Zaabi added.
"The ministry's efforts were based on the key role entrusted to it by the UAE wise leadership and in implementation of HH Sheikh Mansoor bin Zayed Al Nahyan. The project is the result of three years of research and deliberations by Sharia and astronomy scholars from the Islamic world as well as review of industry best practices inside and outside the UAE," HE al Zaabi highlighted.
He further underlined that the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre formed a committee of specialists in Sharia and astronomy to concert efforts with the other committees in order to implement the project which covers all the emirates in the UAE, taking into consideration sharia conditions and scientific results that affect calculation of prayer timings.
HE Al Zaabi stressed the importance of the unified calendar in light of the current changes, whether technological in area of highly accurate astronomical calculations, the increase in the natural and artificial dust and light pollution or urban changes that led to vertical and horizontal expansion in both areas and buildings. Such changes necessitated the formation of committees that comprised scholars in Islamic law, physics and astronomy, representing several stakeholders. All of them worked on setting out the criteria and bases for the calendar, he added. 
"We witness today joint national Sharia, astronomical, administrative and coordinating efforts that have produced this achievement in the Hijri calendar calculation field," HE al Zaabi concluded.
For his part, Dr Mohammed Matar al Kaabi, Awqaf's Chairman, highly valued the directives of the UAE astute leadership to introduce the calendar, stressing that such scientific achievement needs concerted efforts of each citizen and Muslim in the UAE and is aimed at touching with happiness the hearts of all those living on its land, offering them all the information they need in an easy manner.
Dr al Kaabi further extended his thanks, appreciation and prayers to the UAE wise leadership for their care and keen interest in regulating religious affairs for citizens and residents. Such care can be illustrated in the interest shown in setting the timings for two of the key acts of worships, being prayer and fasting, he explained.
"Since it was found by late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace, the UAE has always aspired to serve Islam and preserve the culture of the UAE," Dr al Kaabi underscored.
Dr al Kaabi further lauded the efforts by the Awqaf's scholars and their participation in the committee of the religious and astronomical scholars, noting that the introduction of the unified calendar is a great responsibility since the performance of the acts of worship is done on prescribed timings. Linking the religious texts with the astronomical phenomena using modern methods was an important aspect of preparing such a calendar, Dr al Kaabi concluded.
Meanwhile, Dr Hamad al Shibani, General Director of Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department (IACAD) in Dubai, expressed the department's appreciation of the UAE wise leadership's continuous support to all that is conducive to highlight the national efforts at all levels.
Dr al Shibani underlined that the IACAD's participation in preparing the calendar came as part of its strive to reach unanimity on the accurate criteria for a unified calendar for the UAE, especially in light of the recommendations of the Dubai Forum for prayer timings which IACAD organised in November 2016 in attendance of elite group of religious and astronomical specialists at the regional and Arab Islamic levels.
"The year 2014 saw the formation of a multi-speciality scientific committee, comprising religious scholars and astronomers to review the criteria. The Council of Senior Scholars gave directives to assess such scientific criteria to ensure its accuracy on ground and present the result in the Dubai Forum for prayer timings. Accordingly, the committee was formed to observe the timing of the five daily prayers, especially the Fajr prayer. Field work continued for three years, covering the entire areas of the UAE. The results proved accuracy of the recommended criteria, which was also testified by international experts as amongst the best practices in this field," Dr al Shibani explained.
The conference also brought to stage Abdullah Khalifa al Siboosi, Director of the Islamic Affairs Department in Sharjah, who extended his thanks to the UAE prudent leadership for their limitless support and for harnessing all possible means to all that which may serve the best interests of the people and country. He also praised the efforts exerted in preparing the unified Hijri calendar and prayer timings.
"Indeed, the Hijri calendar is not only a means for calculating prayer timings and knowing the beginning of Hijri months, but it is rather a symbol embodying the character and identity, in addition to its association to such Islamic acts of worship as prayer, fasting and Hajj, amongst others," al Siboosi underlined.
On a related note, Professor Humaid Mijwel al Nuaimi, Chancellor of the University of Sharjah and Chairman of Arab Astronomical Association, said the calendar, which features timings of prayers and beginnings of Hijri months, had been prepared according to perfect astronomical and physical calculations, taking into consideration physical, aerial, environmental and geographical factors. This was done under conditions and outcomes that corrected several differences existing in prayer timings and the time of sunrise that is in harmony with the position of the sun in the sky, which keeps changing around the year. 
"These calculations cover all areas and cities of the UAE in line with latitude and longitude coordinates, taking into account the daily position of the sun while traveling from sunrise to sunset, as the position of the sun gets higher and lower in accordance with seasons," he explained.
Other speakers in the conference included as well Eng. Khalfan Sultan al Nuaimi, Chairman of the Emirates Association of Astronomy, who said, "The unified calendar was based on the calculations of the Hijri prayer timings and beginning of Hijri months in accordance with field studies that monitored the dawn timing as well as other prayer timings following the best scientific standards in the astronomy industry. This was done by a team of astronomers in coordination with the Sharjah Centre for Astronomy and Space Sciences as well as the International Astronomical Centre, in addition to Sharia scholars."
Al Nuaimi continued saying, "The results were compared to the international astronomical criteria and the viewpoints of a group of elite experts in astronomy in the Islamic world who gathered in the Dubai and Sharjah forums for prayer timings criteria, which are considered as the most accurate at religious and astronomical levels. The application of those criteria guarantees achieving pioneering in this arena at global level."
For his part, Eng. Mohammed Shawkat Oudeh, President of the International Astronomical Centre, emphasised that the differences in prayer timings across all the areas in each emirate were approved by the religious committee in coordination with the Awqaf.
On another level, Yusuf al Obeidli, Director General of the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Centre considered that the instructions of HH Sheikh Mansoor bin Zayed Al Nahyan given to the centre to concert efforts in order to implement the unified calendar project reflected HH's trust and great support. Such support is the foundation for boosting the centre's cultural role and enhances its efforts related to all the initiatives it launches or sponsors.  
Al Obeidi unveiled that new information have been added to the new Hijri calendar this year. For instance, it includes the moon phases, Qibla direction, some of the astronomical events such as the houses and moods of the moon. Other additions include daily moonrise and moonset along with a picture featuring its phase at a particular day and its actual positioning. In addition to that, the calendar features some national and international occasions that reflect the cultural and humanitarian values upheld by the UAE, he concluded.    
 













