addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Awqaf celebrated the Prophet's Migration anniversary at the Abu Dhabi National theatre. The ceremony was attended by a group of elite scholars and guests from Al Azhar and Their Excellences Awqaf executive directors and departments managers.
After the national anthem, the ceremony started with a recitation from the Holy Quran. Mr. Omar Habtoor al Direi, Director of the Awqaf's Official Fatwa Centre, then delivered a speech in which he extended heartfelt greetings on the occasion of the Hijri New Year to HH Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the UAE President, may Allah protect him and confer on him continued good health, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the UAE Vice President and Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Their Highness Members of the Supreme Council Rulers of the Emirates.
He also expressed his congratulations to all of UAE people, the Muslim and Arab people as well as to the whole world on the anniversary of the blessed Prophetic Migration which, he said, has given to all mankind the highest level of humane civilisation, noble values and magnificent messages.
In his speech, al Direi said, "The Prophetic migration is a renewed festivity glowing with emotions and high sentiments that flows upon recalling the journey of the best of mankind, our Master Muhammad pbuh. The memory of the Hijra has closely associated Muslims in chronology, values, meanings and objectives. It was a journey that carried the meanings of nostalgia, love, hope, stamina, faith, optimism, building and perfection."
Al Direi added that the migrants pursued their journey under motivated with such concepts as: from soundness to soundness, "and say, 'My Lord, cause me to enter a sound entrance and to exit a sound exit," from good to better "We will surely settle them in this world in a good place," and from affection to affection, praying to their Lord "O Allah! Make us love Medina as we love Mecca or even more than that."
In its literal meaning, al Direi continued, Hijra means leaving what is dear and familiar when moving from a place to another one. Yet, it has far deeper meanings, mainly moving from a status to a better one in terms of individuals as well as the nation. This should occur in accordance with laws and regulations, the rights of true citizenship, the values of goodness and kindness. Hijra means to migrate towards knowledge, civilised giving, urban development, and towards strengthening love and peace, he explained.
The aspects of Hijra are not limited to changing one's place, but it is rather aimed at working diligently to achieve better conditions. On this account, it was narrated that Umm Salama, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "O Messenger of Allah! I have not heard Allah mentioning anything about women and emigration." So Allah, Blessed and Most High, revealed: "and their Lord responded to them, 'Never will I allow to be lost the work of [any] worker among you, whether male or female," al Direi further underlined.
Through the concept of Hijra, Medina was born as a city enjoying all the components of civilised cities at that time. Over a period of ten years from the Hijra, Medina witnessed enormous achievements, the foremost of which was the Charter of Medina, being the first constitutional document that regulated people's daily life affairs in order to achieve the higher goals of peaceful co-existence, respect of differences emanating from the requirements of rights, interests and establishment of peace. In Medina, there came the divine command to Muslims to maintain affection and avoid discord, even if it was in the name of religion. The Almighty says, "do not stand [for prayer] within it - ever. A mosque founded on righteousness from the first day is more worthy for you to stand in," underscored al Derei, explaining that Quran has come to emphasise that exploiting religion in spreading disagreement amongst people shall never blossom and that the building which is built on such bases will not cease to be a [cause of] scepticism in the hearts of its builders until their hearts are stopped.
Indeed, those were such a civilised values that the Prophet pbuh established in Medina and the Prophetic Hijra was the foundations for them, al Derei stressed.
Concluding his speech, al Derei said, "We raise our hands and pray to Allah, the Most High, the Most Competent, to protect our leadership and homeland and make our rulers pleased with our country and its sons while accomplishing further achievements, looking forward to the future in insightful eyes and shining hope regardless of all challenges."
The ceremony also brought to stage scholar Salah al Sayyed from Al Azhar who delivered a speech titled the "Prophetic migration and Jurisprudence of reality". Al Sayyed started his speech by extending the greetings of the Grand Imam of Al Azhar, Dr Ahmed al Tayeb, to the UAE leadership and people. Then he highlighted the aspects of moderation and forbearance that feature the religious discourse adopted in the UAE as well as Al Azhar.
Al Sayyed then explained that the true meaning of Hijra is not only to move from one community to another; but it is rather moving from one role to another: the role of oppression in the environment of polytheism in Mecca to the role of openness to the world in Medina. It is actually the transfer from the mission of building the religion to the mission of building the nation and community as well as interacting with other nations, he said.
Al Sayyed finally underlined the lessons that can be drawn from the Prophet's migration, especially planning and relying upon Allah, the Almighty, in addition to returning the trusts to their owners, leaving thereby an ethical footprint that could never be forgotten neither by Quraish nor by the world under any circumstances.
Other events in the ceremony included the display of a video which was prepared by Awqaf, reviving the values of the Prophet's migration and the merits of the migrating companions and the supports in Medina.
For his part, Dr Ahmed al Haddad, Director of Fatwa Department at the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai, addressed in his speech the aspects of tolerance in the Prophet's Hijra, bringing an example in this regard the Prophet pbuh's forbearance with his enemies and the tolerance he showed by supplicating to them rather than cursing them, so he pbuh said "O Allah! Guide my nation, for they have no knowledge."
Dr al Haddad further underlined that after the Hijra, the Prophet pbuh demonstrated tolerance and chose the path of reconciliation with Quraish and other tribes in addition to promoting a community that favoured compassion and cooperation between Muslims and the people of the Scriptures as well as between the Ansar (supporters) and immigrants. All those values were cemented in the Charter of Medina, al Haddad concluded.
This was followed by a beautiful recitation of a poem on the Hijra and Burda by poet Sheikha al Mutairi, Head of National Culture at Jumaa Al Majid Centre.
Thereafter, Mr. Nasser al Yamahi, a preacher at Awqaf, talked about the patriotic meanings in the Prophet's migration, citing a number of the Prophet's stances and those of his companions which embodied love of their homeland, Mecca, in which they tolerated Quraish's hostile actions against them, and then their love of their new homeland which they built with knowledge, civilised co-existence, guidance and justice.
For her part, Salma al Aidroos, preacher at Awqaf, delivered a speech about the Prophet's migration and nurturing the leaders of the future. In her speech, al Aidroos underscored the role of the young generation in the Prophet's Hijra, citing the contributions of Asmaa Bint Abu Bakr and her brother Abdullah as well as the historical role of Ali Ibn Abu Talib when he slept in the bed of the Prophet pbuh in spite of the dangers surrounding him. He was also left in Mecca in order to return the trusts and things that were committed to the care of the Prophet pbuh to their owners in Quraish. Despite the hostility of Quraish, the Prophet pbuh fulfilled his trust to them, she explained.
Al Aidroosi ended her speech by saying, "Truly, in such stances there are lessons to draw, which can form the foundations for nurturing the leaders of the future. The Prophet pbuh and his companions set a role model that should be introduced to our contemporary young people in light of the UAE leadership's aspirations to raise future generations who are armed with noble values, authenticity, knowledge, sciences and innovations."
Worth mention, the ceremony was mastered by Mr. Jumaa al Hosani, Director of Awqaf's department of Government Communications. 
 
 













