addthis_pub="newawqaf";















General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments held a press conference at its premises in Abu Dhabi to announce the UAE official Hajj mission's preparations this year (1431Hijri). H.E. Mr.Mohammad Obeid Al-Mazrouei, the official Hajj mission chairman, headed the press conference which was attended by Mr.Obaid Hamad AlZaabi, mission's deputy chairman, GAIAE director of Hajj affairs, several GAIAE officials and representatives of the UAE media.H.E.Mr. Al-Mazrouei stated that the Hajj official delegation is honored by the great support of the UAE prudent leadership who has provided all the financial, administrative, health-related and religious needs. Such support will enable the mission to care for and supervise UAE pilgrims during their Hajj journey and to secure their safe return home.Mr.Al-Mazrouei added "In view of their continuous support to GAIAE and to the official Hajj mission, we would like to extend our love, gratitude and loyalty to our leaders, H.H. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah protect him, his brother H.H. Sheikh Mohammad bin Rashed Al-Maktoum, UAE Vice President, Prime Minister, Ruler of Dubai, Their highnesses members of the Federal Supreme Council, Rulers of the Emirates, and H.H. Sheikh Mohammad bin Zayed, Crown Prince, Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. May Allah reward them for all the care extended to the UAE pilgrims, and may Allah have mercy and peace on the soul of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, UAE Founder.Dr.Al-Mazroui stated that the UAE official Hajj mission is in line with GAIAE's strategy approved by the Cabinet to promote religious awareness and improve Hajj and Umrah services so as to remain among the best in the Islamic countries. The UAE official Hajj mission for this year is composed of thirteen committees. There are 153 Hajj contractors with six thousand two hundred and twenty eight UAE pilgrims, out of them one thousand are UAE residents.The preparatory delegation will depart to Mecca on 1/11/2010 while the UAE official mission will depart on 5/11/2010 and will remain there until the last UAE Hajj group departure i.e. on 22/11/2010.According to Mr.Al-Mazrouei, that there will be mobile treatment units which will be moving to the residence of the ill pilgrim for emergency healthcare delivery. Hajj brochures have been distributed to the contractors that include the numbers of four hotlines for health-related inquiries. Each group will also be accompanied by a physician and a nurse. He also added that all Hajj organizers must abide by the accommodation conditions and criteria laid out by GAIAE . He announced that a delegation was sent this year to ensure the safety and comfort of the residencies and the tents in Mina and Arafat. He also asserted that the mission welcomes all complaints.Further, GAIAE is conducting religious preaching programs and lectures prior to and during Hajj to clarify Hajj rites and obligations. Moreover, written information will be distributed to the UAE pilgrims in addition to eight phone lines in Mecca that will answer all shariah related inquiries 24 hours a day.Dr.Al-Mazrouei also stated that under the patronage of H.H. Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minsiter, Minister of the Interior, may Allah protect him, a comprenhensive plan to deal with any emergency has been prepared. He added that the UAE official mission is ready more than ever to act in case of emergency.He also referred to this year's increase in Hajj expenses due to the increase in accommodation fees in the Holy Lands.













