addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In the Name of God, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful.Praise and thanks are for Allah, Lord of the Worlds, Who said in the Holy Quran "And say: "My Lord! Increase me in knowledge" (Taha:114) and peace be upon His Messenger Prophet Mohammad.
Since the era of The UAE Founder, the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest him in peace and in Paradise, the state has been based on excellence and pioneering. UAE prudent leadership of H.H. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nayhan, may Allah protect him, continues to place a great emphasis on a comprehensive strategy of advancement and modernity. Further, the implementation of this strategy is being pursued with strong determination and collaboration by H.H. Sheikh Muhammad bin Rashed Al Maktoum, Vice-President, Prime Minister, Ruler of Dubai, and their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates. .
This blessed undertaking is also benefiting from the full support of H.H. Sheikh Mohammad bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Abu Dhabi Crown Prince, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, whose great achievements and initiatives for the sake of our beloved country are enriching and enlightening our life.
In harmony with the modernization of our country characterized by information technology,  General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments has set up an interactive website. The purpose is to introduce GAIAE as a pioneer institution in administering Islamic affairs while abiding by the true Islamic path "Say (O Muhammad): This is my way; I invite unto Allah (i.e. to the Oneness of Allah) with sure knowledge, I and whosoever follows me (also must invite others to Allah)". (Yusuf:108) and in the Holy Quran "Thus We have made you a balanced nation"(Al-Baqarah:143). If Allah is Our guidance, we will never go astray.
It is our great pleasure to introduce to you GAIAE website hoping that it will reflect our progress, transparency, and objectivity. We also hope that it will be beneficial to all. Success is granted by Allah - Exalted be He.
Hamdan Musallam Al-Mazrouei, Ph.D.Chairman of General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments.
 

Biography
 
HE Dr. Hamdan Musallam Al Mazrouei has served as Chairman of the General Authority  of Islamic Affairs and Endowments (GAIAE) since its inception in 2006. Dr. Al Mazrouei leads the GAIAE to achieve its mission and goals to be a leading reference in educating the community in accordance with the tolerant teachings of Islam, which recognise the reality and foresee the future.
Prior to joining  GAIAE, Dr. Al Mazrouei held the post of Assistant Undersecretary of Islamic Affairs at the Ministry of Justice, Islamic Affairs and Endowments in 2004. He also served as Deputy Secretary General for Local Affairs at the Red Crescent Authority in 2002.Dr. Al Mazrouei obtained his bachelor's degree in Islamic Studies from the UAE University in 1992 and a master's degree in Education in Islam from the Yarmouk University in 1995. In 1999, He got his PhD in Islamic Studies on advocacy and reward from the University of  Imam Mohammed bin Saud.
Contact details:
Email: Chairman@awqaf.gov.ae
Tel: +971 2 6143868
On Facebook at: http://www.facebook.com/Dr.Hamdan.AlMazrouei













