addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The Board of Directors is the GAIAE higher authority which oversees the implementation of GAIAE goals.  
The members of the  Board of Directors are:






Name


Title


Photo



1
 H.E. Dr.Mohammad Al Kaabi

Chairman, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowments




2
HE Ali Khalfan Ahmed Al Mansouri 
Director of Charitable Institutions at the Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department in Dubai 



3
HE Mohammed Atiq Al Falahi 

Secretary General of the UAE Red Crescent Authority




4
H.E. Saif  Said Mohammad AlZahmi

 Director Department of Administrative Affairs
Fujaira Ruler's Court-Diwan



5
HE Sultan Ali Mohammed Abu Laila
Director General of Lands & Property Department of Ras Al Khaimah 



6
HE Jamal Salem Al Traifi    

Advisor at Sharjah Ruler's Court




7
H.E. Abdullah Salem Saif Qunsol       

Director Office of Social Affairs
 Um al Quwaim



8
Dr Omar Abdul Rahman Salem Al Nuaimi

Advisor to the Demographic Research Centre, the Federal Demographic
Council/Director of Humaid Bin Rashid Al Nuaimi Centre for the Service of the Holy Quran 



9
HE Maryam Mohammed Al Rumaithi
Director General of Family Development Foundation 





To read the main responsibilities of the Board of Directors please  click here. 

●  Approve the GAIAE general policy and plans relating to Islamic affairs and Awqaf (religious endowments).
●  Approve the rules and regulations governing Islamic affairs and Awqaf, including Hajj and Umra, and any eventual violations, administrative or financial penalties. A pertinent decree is to be issued later by the UAE Cabinet.
●  Approve any plans or programmes aiming at increasing Awqaf revenues and regulating the process of their collection.
●   Propose Islamic legislations relative to Islamic affairs and Awqaf.
●  Approve the GAIAE organisational chart pending the issuance of a UAE Cabinet decree related thereto.
● Approve the GAIAE administrative and financial bylaws and its employment regulations pending the issuance of a UAE Cabinet decree related thereto.
●  Contract with counselors, experts, and technicians to fulfill GAIAE needs provided such appointments are within the GAIAE budget.
●  Approve the GAIAE annual ledger (incomes and expenditures).
● Agree on the proposed annual budget and end of the year ledger account.
●  Appoint GAIAE senior employees, as recommended by the Chairman, and in accordance with the GAIAE employment regulations.
●  Appoint auditors and determine their fees.
●  Approve reports on the performance of the GAIAE departments.
● Form GAIAE permanent committees, define their duties and financial rewards as suggested by the GAIAE Chairman.
●  Approve the bills submitted by Awqaf supervisors provided they are in conformity with the GAIAE regulations.
●  Propose the fees for work permits and other GAIAE services. The relevant decree is to be issued by the UAE Cabinet.
●   Discuss any other GAIAE issues set forth by the Chairman.
 














