addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Waqf has three components: The endower, the endowment (waqf), and the beneficiary.
1.The endower:
The endower must confirm his/her decision to grant an endowment and designate its beneficiary either verbally or in writing. One can also have a tangible evidence on his/her endowments such as a built mosque or cemetery.
Endowment must be granted with full determination and as a final decision; in other words, a promissory and conditional endowments are not accepted. Further, endowment is irrevocable and for an unlimited time. Most scholars agree that endowment cannot be valid for a limited period. The Maliki school, however, is the only one that accepts the limited time endowment. 
2.Endower's qualifications:
The endower must be an adult with free will. His/her decision to grant an endowment must be a personal one. i.e. is not imposed on him/her by anyone.
3. Endowment:
Endowment funds or assets must be in compliance with Shariah. For instance, wine cannot be considered an endowment.
Endowment can be either in cash or in kind such as estates and stocks. Since an endowment is a continuous charity (Sadaqah Jariah), it must be permanent and non-perishable. Therefore, food cannot be endowed. Moreover, the endowment can be a part of an undivided joint estate granted its percentage is known (such as 25% of the estate). Endower has the right to increase his waqf with time by additional funds or in kind.
4.Beneficiary's requirements:
The beneficiary can be an individual(s) or an institution(s) which is awarded the income generated from investing the waqf.  Waqf must also be designated to Shari'a compliant deeds or people such as printing the Holy Quran, or helping  the needy, the poor, the relatives...
Self-endowment:
Endower is permitted to earn the whole or some of the income generated by the waqf during his/her life. Upon one's death, the income will be spent on the beneficiary designated by the endower. 
Endowment of an indebted or terminally Ill person:
If an individual is in debts and is placed under guardianship per the debtors' request, one's endowment will only come into effect upon the debtors' approval. In Islamic law, paying up one's debts is an obligation and a priority whereas an endowment is a voluntary charitable donation. The same condition applies to the terminally ill person. Such person is not entitled to establish a waqf until all his debts have been paid or upon the debtors' approval.
Waqf and inheritance:
Waqf can be established during one's life. It can also be stated in the will. One can designate one third of his/her money for waqf. In case the amount allocated for waqf  is more than the third of the inheritance, it is up to the heirs to accept or reject establishing the waqf inheritance. In such case, the remaining funds or assets must be distributed to the heirs.
 













