addthis_pub="newawqaf";















GAIAE started answering Islamic ruling queries via its toll free number (8002422) in 2007. In the beginning it received an average of between 200 and 250 phone calls a day, but this figure had grown by time. So in order to cope with the increasing demand and offer a full range of services, a Fatwa Centre was established at the GAIAE premises in May, 2008. The Centre was inaugurated by H.H. Lieutenant General Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister, on Shaaban 27, 1429 (corresponding to August 28, 2008).

The Fatwa Centre provides the following services:
1. The Fatwa toll free number 8002422 is available from 8 am to 8 pm during working days. Muftis answer queries regarding matters relative to worship and creed, social relations, business transactions, family relations, and women issues. The service is available in Arabic, English and Urdu. More than 1000 calls are received daily. In Ramadan, calls tend to exceed 3000 a day.
2. The Fatwa SMS service via number 2535 is available from 8 am to 8 pm during regular working days. The service is accessible via mobile phones with a limit of no more than 200 characters for each text message. SMS received outside normal working days shall be answered in the next 24 hours.
3. The Online Service through the GAIAE's website www.awqaf.gov.ae is available at any time (24/7).
4. Answers will be sent via email for online service users.

Objectives:


1. To unify and regulate Fatwa practices in the UAE.
2. To protect Muslims from improvised or false Fatwas.
3. To establish direct contact between people from all walks of life and Islamic law scholars.
4. To enhance religious awareness and instil the Islamic concepts of moderation and tolerance.
5. To learn more about the society's needs, and help people resolve their problems in compliance with Islamic Shariaa.

Guidelines:

1. To ensure that the Fatwa Centre benefits the UAE, its prudent leadership, its citizens and residents.
2. To abide by the GAIAE 's regulations and instructions, and help achieve its vision and mission.
3. To keep records of all queries and answers.
4. To follow the Maliki Madhab (the official school of Islamic law in UAE) in all issues relating to the matters of worship, and consider the said school a priority in other Fatwas depending on each case in question .
5. To follow the Fatwas issued by other Islamic jurisprudential assemblies concerning various contemporary issues.
6. To use leniency and easiness in all Fatwas and avoid immoderation and sternness.　　
7. To avoid sectarian, religious and political controversies.
8. To maintain good ethics and conduct and serve as a role model for the community.
9. To be aware of the mission of the Muftis and undertake their responsibilities in due form.
10. To enhance Muftis' education and skills, and ensure that they attend all courses, seminars, and lectures offered by the GAIAE.














