addthis_pub="newawqaf";















GAIAE assumes the following responsibilities relating to Hajj and Umrah:
● Organize Hajj and Umrah affairs and establish the reinforcing regulations.
● Supervise the implementation of said regulations.
● Regulate the performance of Hajj and Umrah contractors.
● Grant permits for Hajj and Umrah groups based on the pertinent rules and regulations
● Perform the secretarial duties for the permanent committee for Hajj and Umrah.
● Conduct an annual evaluation on the contractors and groups' performance, and ensure their compliance with the agreements concluded with the pilgrims.
● Coordinate, regulate and make the necessary preparations for the official Hajj delegation formed by a decree of the UAE Cabinet.
● Prepare the plans for guiding and preaching the pilgrims and supervise its implementation.
● Test the preachers that will join Hajj and Umrah groups.
● Conduct training courses for Hajj and Umrah accompanying preachers.
● Resolve the pilgrims' complaints vis-à-vis their contractors or groups.
● Review the Hajj guidelines issued by the Saudi Kingdom and submit a report in this respect to the permanent committee for Hajj and Umrah to take the appropriate decisions.
● Any other pertinent issues.
1.	Application to issue a new license for Haj and Umra2.	Requirements for undertaking a new Haj campaign 3.	Application to renew Haj and Umra licence 4.	Application to request a prior licence to Haj, to cancel the license or withdraw from a Branch 5.	Application to open a Branch for Haj campaign or transfer the Branch6.	Application to change the campaign name7.	Application to withdraw from a partnership or dispense with a Haj campaign 8.	Application to request a merger of Haj campaigns9.	Introduction document for Haj and Umra campaigns10.	Haj campaign administrators' personal information form 11.	Contract for the provision of medical services in the Haj season12.	Contract  for the provision of preaching and guidance services in the Haj season13.	Haj and Umra contract14.	Pilgrims' health form













