addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Praise be to Allah, the Lord of all creatures, Who has chosen Messengers and Prophets to warn and bring glad tidings to humankind. There is no god but Allah, Who commands us in the Quran to believe, respect and love all prophets and messengers "The Messenger Muhammad believes in what has been sent down to him from his Lord, and (so do) the believers. Each one believes in Allah, His Angels, His Books, and His Messengers. (they say) "We make no distinction between one and another of His Messengers."(Al-Baqarah:285). May Allah be pleased with Prophet Muhammad and fellow prophets for their ultimate perseverance; Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and all other Prophets and Messengers and those who will follow them till the Day of Judgment.Dear Muslims, I urge you to be pious and obedient to Allah -Exalted - Who says in the Quran "O you who believe! Be afraid of Allah, and be with those who are true (in words and deeds)".(Al-Taubah:119). Allah has sent down Messengers to guide us to the right path, and the Holy Quran recounts their lives so we learn from them as Allah said "Indeed in their stories, there is a lesson for men endued with understanding."(Yousef:111). Among the stories is the life of Jesus who was born of a pure and chaste virgin mother whom Allah - Exalted - has chosen among all women "And mention in the book(The Quran) O Mohammad the story of Mary when she withdrew in seclusion from her family to a place facing east. She placed a screen (to screen) herself from them; then We sent to her our angel Gabriel, and he appeared before her in the form of a man in all respects. (The angel) said: "I am only a messenger from your Lord (to announce) to you the gift of a righteous son." Mary became perplexed how can she be pregnant without intercourse?! So she said "How can I have a son, when no man has touched me, nor am I unchaste."So angel Gabriel replied "So (it will be), your Lord said: That is easy for Me (Allah), And (We wish) to appoint him as a sign to mankind and a mercy for Us and it is a matter already decreed by Allah."(Maryam:16-19). Dear believers, Allah created Adam from dust, He created Eve from Adam's rib and Allah -Almighty-created Jesus from a virgin mother with no father. "The similitude of Jesus before God is as that of Adam; He created him from dust, then said to him "Be" and he was." (Al-Imran:59). The Quran recounts the miraculous birth of Jesus "So she conceived him and she retired to a remote place, and the pains of childbirth drove her to the trunk of a palm and she cried (in her anguish): "Ah! Would that I have died before this! Would that I had been a thing forgotten and out of sight."(Maryam:22-23). Mary, the mother of Jesus was maligned by her people "At length she brought the (baby) to her people, carrying him (in her arms). They said: "O Mary! Truly an amazing thing have you brought! O sister of Aaron! Your father was not a man of evil, nor your mother a woman unchaste! But she pointed to the baby. They said: How can we talk to one who is a child in the cradle." Allah - Almighty- made Jesus speak in his cradle "He said:"I am indeed a servant of God: He has given me revelation and made me a prophet; And He has made me blessed wheresoever I be, and has enjoined on me prayer and charity as I love; He has made me kind to my mother, and not overbearing or miserable; So peace is on me the day I was born, the day that I die, and the day that I shall be raised up to life (again)"! The stories of Jesus miracles and the last supper are also told in the Quran "And behold! You make out of clay, as it were, the figure of a bird, by My leave, and your breathes into it and it becomes a bird by My leave, and you heal those born blind, and the lepers, by My leave."(al-Maidah:110).Allah - Exalted - has honored Jesus, may Allah have peace on him, and his virgin mother, Mary and the family of Omran. There are three chapters in the Quran that recall Jesus story. One of them is Surat Al-Mai'dah(the table) which refers to the story of the last supper. To sum up, Muslims accept the sacred nature of all previous revelations, accept the scriptures of Allah and acknowledge the prophets. Islamic history had remarkable stories of co-existence and tolerance with non-Muslims who lived among Muslims and enjoyed the rights of practicing their faith. We must use this long history as a model for love and cooperation among human beings of all faiths in order to live in safety and peace.
 
 













