addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All Praise to Allah Who has created the heavens and the earth as blessings and bounties to mankind. I testify that there is no god but Allah and that Prophet Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. May the peace and blessing of Allah be upon our Prophet at all times, his family, his companions and all those who follow them till the Day of Judgment.I advise you and myself, to be righteous with Allah and to follow the guidance of the Quran and the Messenger of Allah (pbuh), for Allah says in His revelation "And fear the Day when you shall be brought back to God. Then shall every soul be paid what it earned, and none shall be dealt with unjustly" (al-Baqara:281).Dear Muslims,  Allah - Exalted - made human beings the guardians of the earth and made all creatures subservient to men. Allah entrusted us with the full control and management over it" It is God Who has created the heavens and the earth and sends down rain from the skies, and with it brings out fruits as provision for you; it is He Who has made the ships to be of service to you, that they may sail through the sea by His command, and the rivers (also) has He made to be of service to you. And He has made the sun and the moon, both diligently pursuing their courses to be of service to you; and the night and the day has He (also) made of service to you."(Ibrahim:32-33). Muslims are repeatedly called upon by Almighty Allah to build and cultivate the land, plant trees and oversee the protection of the trees and the plants, the mountains, the seas and the rivers, the animals and the birds. Each individual must act as a protector and developer of the environment. We are all responsible and must acknowledge the value of conserving our environment as Allah - Almighty - recounts in the Holy Quran What Prophet Saleh, may Allah have peace on him, told his people "To the Thamud people (We sent) Salih, one of their own brethren. He said:" O my people! Worship God: you have no other god but Him. It is He Who has produced you from the earth and settle you therein."(Hud:61).
God has also provided water in abundance, He sends it down as rain and makes it flow in streams to revive the earth. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) called upon his followers to preserve pure water and to stop its abuse. The Messenger of Allah said to Saad when he was performing ablutions; Do not waste. Saad said: Is there extravagance in ablutions? The Prophet said: Even though you were on a running river."Dear Muslims, Let's preserve water which is an invaluable asset and teach our children to be careful and wise in its consumption. The UAE spares no effort to provide you with clean water. We must show our appreciation for their efforts by not wasting it. We are also ordained by Allah to keep our houses and the surrounding facilities and streets clean and prevent pollution. Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) says: Allah is pure and only accepts that which is pure, Allah is clean and only accepts that which is clean, Allah is generous and only accept those who are generous, so clean your homes. Islam addresses cleanliness in considerable depth as it is part and partial of the Islamic faith. It is reported that the Prophet (pbuh) said: Cleanse yourself for Islam is cleanliness." "Cleanliness invites toward faith, and faith leads its possessor to the garden (Paradise)". Further, Islam cares for the biological environment and its plants and animals because of their importance in the sustenance of life and the achievement of its ecological balance. In several Quranic verses there is encouragement for man to engage in agricultural activity. The Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) said "If a Muslim plants a plant or cultivates a crop, no bird or human being eats from it, without its being accounted as a rewardable charity for him."He also said "When a Muslim plants a plant, anything eaten until the Day of Resurrection is accounted as a charity for him." Islam grants landowners who are unable to cultivate their lands the right to distribute it on peasants or whoever is able to use it for cultivation and production. It is to be noted that the United Arab Emirates has made valuable contributions in preserving the environment. By planting more than 42 million palm trees, it has changed the desert landscape, and has the largest number of palm trees in the world.Moreover, Islam calls for preserving and protecting animals and prohibiting cruelty against them. Islam even made kindness to animal part of its faith. The Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) drew a picture depicting Allah's anger and punishment for those who mistreat animals.  He said "A woman was sent to the Fire because of a cat. She imprisoned her and neither fed her nor set her free to feed upon the rodents of the earth."Dear Muslims,The environment with its resources is a permanent human inheritance for all successive generations to come, it is a blessing of Allah which deserves our appreciation. I urge you to teach your children how to value and protect Allah's bounties.
 
 
 













