addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Thanks for Allah, Lord of mankind, Jinn and all that exists, Who says in His revelation "and We record that which they send before and that which they leave behind, and of all things have We taken account in a clear Book (for evidence)." (Ya-Sin:12). I testify that there is no god but Allah and that Mohammad is His Messenger and His beloved servant who said "Your traces shall be recorded." May the peace of Allah and blessing be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and all those who follow him until the Day of Judgment.Dear Muslims,I urge you and myself to fear and obey Allah -Exalted - Who says: Truly, Allah is with those who fear Him, and those who are good-doers."(An-Nahl:128).We mark these days the fifth anniversary of the passing of our great leader, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest his soul in peace. Sheikh Zayed was the founder of our beloved country, The United Arab Emirates. He left great marks in its history, built its glory and established its most unforgettable landmarks all over the nation, may Allah reward him. Since he assumed the leadership, he envisioned a bright future for this country, and was able to establish a strong union, with the support of Allah, and the help of his fellow brothers, The Rulers of the Emirates. This union brought to fruition peace, stability, safety and well-being to the country and its people.History has commemorated Sheikh Zayed as one of the prudent and humanistic leaders in modern times. He was a caring father, and a worldwide role model in philanthropy, helping the poor, sponsoring orphans and fulfilling the needs of destitute people. Our Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said "Allah will be of assistance to the slaves as long as the slave is of assistance to his brother. Whoever removes an anxiety of the world from a believer, Allah will remove an anxiety of the Day of Resurrection from him. Whoever removes a financial distress from a Muslim, Allah will remove his wrong actions in the Day of Resurrection."Further, our late great leader, may Allah rest him in peace, who  had endless love and respect for the Holy Quran, established Quran memorization centers and mosques. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said: He who builds a mosque for the sake of Allah, Allah will build for him a similar one in Paradise." With the grace of Allah, and the profound achievements of the late leader, mosques became the most noticeable landmarks in the United Arab Emirates. The late Sheikh Zayed was also keen to instilling the Islamic principles of moderation and tolerance and enhancing moral values. Dear worshippers,The legacy of the late leader is endless, a lifetime of achievements in all aspects, he oversaw a massive  program of constructing schools to build the Emirati man whom he saw as the country's true wealth. He was also keen to giving Emirati woman her rights in education and in work to play a positive role at all levels.Sheikh Zayed, may Allah rest in soul, cared about human life and well-being. To that end, he also oversaw the establishment of hospitals and health facilities all over the UAE. Morevoer, one of his greatest and most amazing achievements is the implementation of programs that changed the desert landscape, and transformed it into green orchads.Sheikh Zayed's humanitarian approach was not only practiced at home but all over the world. He made major contributions in education, health, and humanitarian aid to Muslims and non-Muslims. He earned worldwide respect and was considered one of the most humanitarian personalities in the world.Allah has bestowed on us His bounty by having the late Sheikh Zayed, the leader who transformed an entire national, earning the love and loyalty of his people. We invoke Allah for His mercy and for the protection of our leaders, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed, his deputy and his fellow brothers, the Rulers of the Emirates who are pursuing Sheikh Zayed's legacy so our nation would enjoy safety, stability and well-being.
 
 
 













