addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Thanks for Allah Who honored us with the tolerant religion of Islam, and commanded us to treat non-Muslims with fairness and kindness. There is no god but Allah who said in His revelation" And speak good to people." (al-Baqarah:82) and Muhammad is the beloved servant of Allah, His messenger, and the best of humankind. Peace be upon Mohammad and all his followers till the Day of Judgment. I urge you, Dear Muslims and myself, to be pious and obedient to Allah - Exalted - Who says in the Quran "O you who believe! If you obey and fear Allah, He will remove from you (all) evil (that may afflict you), and forgive you for Allah is the Lord of grace unbounded". (Al-Anfal:29)Dear Muslims, Islam calls upon us to have good relations, sound understanding, and peaceful coexistence with all human beings irrespective of their faith, race or nationality. Indeed, Allah - Exalted - Made the need to be acquainted with other nationalities and races a necessity "O Mankind! We have created you from a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes that you may know one another. Verily, the most honorable of you with Allah is that (believer) who is pious. Verily, Allah is All-knowing, Well-acquainted (with all things)."(Al-Hujurat:13). Treating non-Muslims with kindness and respect is part and parcel of the basic Islamic principles. We are responsible to give good and kind advise to non-Muslims, for Allah says in the Quran "Invite (all) to the Way of your Lord with wisdom and beautiful preaching; and argue with them in ways that are best and most gracious: for your Lord knows best, who have  strayed from His path, and who receive guidance." (Al-Nahl:125). Contrary to popular belief, Islam did not seek to spread the faith through forced conversion. Allah - Almighty - says in the Quran "There is no compulsion in religion. Verily, the right path has become distinct from the wrong path."(Al-Baqarah:256). Even during the early days of Islam, local communities were free to follow their own way of life, practice their faith, and be governed by their religious leaders and laws. The life of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) has undeniable examples of good treatment with non-Muslims " A Jewish who used to serve the Prophet did not show up one day. The Prophet was troubled by the boy's absence, so he went to his home to visit him in his illness. The Prophet looked at the boy with compassion, sad to see him dying at such a young age. The Prophet said "Accept Islam". The boy's father said;" Obey the father of al-Qasim. Say what Muhammad is telling you." He said these words with his final breath."Islam is a religion espousing the universal brotherhood of humanity. In fact, Islam was sent by Allah as a mercy, compassion and peace to mankind. There will be no stability without peaceful cooperation among Muslims and between Muslims and people from all over the world. The history of Islam is full of great stories about cooperation among the three faiths. It is our responsibility, Dear Muslims, to shed light on the tolerance and moderation of our faith.
 
 
 
 
 
 













