addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praise and thanks to Allah, the Lord of all mankind, Jinn and all that exists. I testify that there is no God but Allah and that Mohammad is His Messenger. We beseech the Almighty to bestow His blessing on our Prophet Muhammad, his noble family, his companions and all those who follow him till the Day of Judgment . Dear Muslims,Men and women have similar rights and duties in Islam as both rewardand punishment are in no way associated with gender "So, their Lordaccepted of them (their supplication and answered them),"Never will Iwaste the work of a worker among you, whether male orfemale."(Al-Imran:195). Also in the Holy Quran " "O mankind!Be dutiful to your Lord, who created you from a single person (Adam), andfrom him (Adam) He created his wife (Eve), and from them both He createdmany men and women; and fear Allah through Whom you demand (yourmutual rights), and (do not cut the relations of the wombs (kinship). Surely,Allah is Ever as All-Watcher over you."(an-Nisa:1)
Dear Fellow Muslims, Civilizations and communities building has always been shared by men and women. Women worked side by side with men in all aspects of life. Also in Islam the responsibility of building and maintaining communities compliant with Islamic principles and moral values lies on both men and women. Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) said:" Women are but (equal) brethren for me". The Noble Quran honors women who had tremendous impact on  Islamic civilization. Among the pious women who were highly valued in the Quran was the wife of Imran(mother of virgin Mary) who was a role model as a mother and a care taker for her family. She supplicated Exalted Allah to grant her good and pious offspring. Referring to her, Allah - Glorious be He - said in the Quran " (Remember) when the wife of Imran said "O my Lord! I have vowed to you what (the child that) is my womb to be dedicated to Your services so accept this from me. Verily, you are the All-Hearer, the All-Knowing."(Al-Imran:35). The Quran also mentions the Queen of Sheba who was known for her prudence and her leadership. When Solomon revealed to her the truth about monotheism, she became a Muslim "She said: My Lord! Verily, I have wronged myself and I submit (in Islam, together with Solomon) to Allah, Lord of all creators (mankind, jinn and all that exists)."(An-Naml:44).Prophet Muhammad's first wife, Khadijah, may Allah be pleased with her, was a prominent businesswomen. She has a tremendous impact on Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) and gave him great support. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) used to remember her deceased wife, Khadijah, with an honest burst of tender emotions "She believed in me when no one else did. She embraced Islam when people disbelieved me. And she helped and comforted me in her person and wealth when there was no one else to lend me a helping hand."(Musnad Imam Ahmad). Islam elevated the position of women in society. Women played a prominent role in public life, attending congregational and Friday prayers during the times of Prophet Mohammad (pbuh). He granted the right of assembly to women. The lady companions of the Prophet (pbuh) submitted to him "O Messenger of Allah, men always get the opportunity to be present in your assembly, please spare some time for us too. Prophet (pbuh) agreed and selected a day during the week for their assembly. Prophet provided answers to their questions and addressed their issues."
Since the "Pursuit of knowledge is obligatory on every Muslim, male or female "as Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said, women have as much right to education as men do. Through the history of Islam, you can find examples of highly educated women, scholars, writers, poets and teachers
Further, Islam grants women equal rights to work, to contract, to enterprise, to earn and to possess independently. Islam has also given women the right to inherit. Moreover, women are entitled to complete provision and total maintenance by the husband. They do not have to work or share with their husband the family expenses unless they want to.Almost fourteen centuries ago, Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) declared that the pursuit of knowledge is incumbent on every Muslim, male and female. This declaration was largely implemented by Muslims throughout history. In the United Arab Emirates women have been offered the best means to acquire knowledge and education. The right of UAE women to take part in the development of their society is laid out in the UAE constitution. They enjoy the same legal status, claim to titles and access to education. The role of Emirati women has grown in line with the country's development; women are now increasingly playing their part in education, politics, economy, medicine, literature...Emirati women have assumed high positions and have fulfilled their duties towards their nation and their society. Their valuable contributions in the development of this country is a sign of their gratitude for Allah's bounty and grace.Our Lord, guide us to obey You and those you commanded us to obey in the Holy Quran " O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those of you who are in authority."(An-Nisa':59).
 
 
 
 
 













