addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Mr.Mohamed Obeid AlMazrouei, Chairman of the UAE Official Hajj Mission, and GAIAE Executive Director for Islamic Affairs, announced that forty four preachers have been selected to join UAE Hajj groups this year.In an interview with the Emirati "Khaleej" newspaper Mr.AlMazrouei said that GAIAE preaching department has assigned eight hotlines to answer all UAE pilgrims Hajj related inquiries. He added that "in order to be licensed for Hajj, any contractor must have completed two Umrah consecutive years with no penalties or complaints from the pilgrims or any authorities."
Referring to Hajj fees, which range between 16000 and 70000 UAE dirhams,Mr.AlMazrouei asserted that they are considered reasonable given the quality of the services  provided compared  with neighboring countries.
 How many Hajj groups have been approved this year and what is the number of UAE pilgrims and residents?
"There are 6228 pilgrims, 5228 of them are Emiratis in addition to 1000 residents. There are 153 groups that we have combined into 44 groups this year."
 What are the requirements for Hajj contractors? Any new regulations?
"Hajj contractor must be UAE citizen, no less than 25 years old and no older than 70 years. He must not be employed by GAIAE. He is also required to pass a personal interview and abide by GAIAE guidelines for renting an office. As mentioned earlier, the contractor must complete two successful consecutive Umrah years to earn the Hajj license."
 There are complaints about high Hajj fees. Does GAIAE monitor and control these fees or are they subject to supply and demand? How are the fees determined?
"Hajj fees are subject to supply and demand. It is up to the pilgrim to choose the group that fits his/her budget. A unified contract prepared by GAIAE department of Hajj and Umrah must be signed by both the contractor and the pilgrim. Any complaint(s) must be addressed to either GAIAE department of Hajj and Umrah or the UAE Official Hajj Mission which has formed a special committee to deal with any complaints."
"Hajj fees in the UAE are reasonable given the services provided. I would like to note that the increase is mainly due to increase in rent in the Holy lands. It is also due to the fact that we seek the best accommodation, transportation and services."
 Did you cancel any Hajj or Umrah license this year? If so, how many and what are the reasons?
"We did not withdraw any license this year as all contractors did abide by the terms and conditions stipulated by the UAE Official Hajj Mission. We are noticing a decline in the number of complaints. Even though there were 10000 UAE pilgrims last year, we only received 20 complaints out of which 19 were resolved amicably. "
 How prepared is GAIAE for this year UAE Official Hajj Mission?
"Under the guidance of the UAE prudent leadership, the Hajj higher authority spent the whole year to ensure the best services for UAE pilgrims. This year's mission includes 180 members, 15 of them representing ministries, such as the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior left the UAE for preliminary preparations.
An inspection committee visited Mecca to ensure that housing and all other preparations are in place. An agreement has been made with an Asian company to provide UAE pilgrims with tents.
GAIAE has set up those tents in Arafah. They are equipped with a/c and well furnished. Similar tents are already in place in Mina where GAIAE has contracted with a cleaning company".
 Have you selected this year's preachers? If so, how many are they? 
"We have selected 44 preachers which will be assigned to three different stages; pre-Hajj, during Hajj and after Hajj.
We have conducted workshops for preachers and we will also conduct informative workshops for pilgrims".
How many new Hajj licenses have you issued this year?
"We have issued four new licenses. There are four requests to open branches as well."
 When will the UAE Official Hajj Mission depart?
"The preliminary mission will depart on the first of November to arrange for the mission's accommodation and to welcome pilgrims and provide them with any required services. The UAE Official Hajj Mission will leave on the fifth of November and will remain until the departure of the last UAE Hajj groups i.e. on the 22nd of November."
 What are the health related preparations?
"We have introduced mobile treatment units which will reach any UAE pilgrim in need at his/her residence. At least one physician, one nurse and one preacher will accompany every Hajj group. The number of physicians and nurses will depend on the number of pilgrims in each group."
According to Mr.AlMazrouei, there will be thirteen committees to coordinate and organize UAE pilgrims affairs. Some committees will report daily to the UAE official Hajj mission. The preaching committee will clarify all Hajj rituals and answer any inquiries, in addition to providing pilgrims with guiding books and publications.
Mr.AlMarzrouie asserted that based on the directives of H.H. Sheikh Saif bin Zayed, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, a comprehensive plan has been laid out to deal with any emergency whether in the tents or in the housing or any unforeseen circumstances. "In coordination with the Saudi authorities, we strive to provide UAE pilgrims with the best safety measures" Mr.AlMazrouei said.
"The emergency plan for this year includes the availability of buses in proximity to UAE pilgrims. A meeting will be conducted with all contractors in Mecca to clarify the measures to be taken in case of emergency. The Mission is well equipped for any unforeseen circumstances. We have, for instance, scouts who are ready to protect pilgrims in any emergency."
Mr.AlMazrouei added "We will distribute more than 120000 meals this year in all areas such as Mina in memory of the late Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, may Allah rest him in peace." Since the passing of our great leader, Mr.AlMazrouei said "meals distribution has become a yearly tribute to our late beloved father whose contributions to the nation and to Muslims will be remembered for years to come."













