addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Praise and thanks are for Allah Who blessed us with the 'Day of Arafah' in which Exalted Allah will double His reward for our good deeds, and will raise our status in the Hereafter. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah Who swore by the 'Day of Arafah': "By the heavens holding big stars and by the Promised Day and by the Witnessing and the Witnessed."(Al-Buruj:85). I also bear witness that Prophet Muhammad is the servant of Allah who interpreted the verse: "The Promised Day is the Day of Resurrection, the Witnessed is the Day of Arafah and the Witnessing is Friday ."May the peace and blessing of Allah be upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, Companions and all those who follow them till the Day of Judgment.
Dear Muslims,
I call upon you and myself to be pious and righteous as an act of obedience to Allah Who says:"O you who believe! Fear Allah and keep your duty to Him. And let every person look to what he has sent forth for tomorrow, and fear Allah. Verily, Allah is Well-Acquainted with what you do." (al-Hashr:18).
In few days pilgrims will head to Arafah to perform the most important pillar of Hajj which Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) referred to "AlHajj Arafah" (Arafah is the Hajj). Pilgrims standing there supplicate Allah, seek His forgiveness and remember Him in this glorious day, the day by which Allah swore:"By the dawn; By the ten nights" ( i.e. the first ten nights of Dhul-Hijjah).(Al-Fajr:1-2).
What a generous day; it is the day of forgiveness and emancipation from the Fire. Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) said "Allah frees far more people from Hell fire on the Day of Arafah than on any other day." It is a culminating day, and there is no day better for Exalted Allah than the day of Arafah. Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) said: "On this day, Allah, the Exalted One, descends to the nearest heaven, and He is proud of His slaves on the earth and says to those in heavens, look at My servants, they have come from far and near, with hair disheveled and faces covered with dust, to seek My mercy. Even if their sins are as much as the sand or the froth of the sea, I shall forgive them." It is, therefore, the day where Allah will answer all our prayers. Prophet Muhammad said: "The best invocation is on the Day of Arafah."
I urge you to increase your supplications in these blessed days so your wishes would come true. Allah did ordain us to invoke Him and He promised to answer our supplications:"And your Lord said: "Invoke ME (ask Me for anything), I will respond to your (invocation)."(Ghafir:60).
Dear Muslims,
Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) did guide us to the right path which raises our status in the Hereafter and makes us closer to Allah in these sacred days. He urged us to increase our invocations, our prayers andour  Takbeer in the Day of Arafah for they are highly rewarded by Allah. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said:"There are no days in which good deeds are more beloved to Allah than these ten days." I call upon you, Dear Muslims, to increase your good deeds, your charitable donations and to offer your help to all people. I also remind you of the importance of fasting as Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said: "Fasting the Day of Arafah expiates the sins for two years."
 
How great is that day in which we can earn Allah's reward even if we're not performing Hajj; Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said"In this day, he who controls his hearing, vision and tongue shall be forgiven( by Allah)."
Dear Worshippers,
All Muslims are proud of the Day of Arafah for it is an unforgettable day in history: "This day, I have perfected your religion for you, completed My Favor upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion."(Al-Ma'idah:3). Omar, may Allah have mercy on him, said" I know on which day this verse was revealed, it was on the Day of Arafah on Friday." It was at Arafah that Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) delivered his last sermon to his people: "O People, just as you regard this month, this day, this city as sacred, so regard the life and property of every Muslim as a sacred trust."
The Prophet's call shall remain a valuable Islamic principle that Muslims shall abide by and apply generation after generation until the Day of Judgment.













