addthis_pub="newawqaf";















This service is available via:
-  The GAIAE's website where interested individuals may enter their personal information and select the type of donation they would like to pay or the type of Waqf they would like to register. A staff member from the Waqf Department will contact them shortly.
- Donors can send a blank SMS to the following numbers:




AED 10 to 9010


AED 20 to 9020




AED 40 to 9040


AED 100 to 9100




AED 200 to 9200


 




-  Waqf disbursements (coupons) will be promoted by Waqf representatives after they are printed and their disbursement channels and amounts are specified. Examples of Waqf and their channels include: endowments for healthcare, orphans, printing of the Holy Quran, among others. Donors can choose the amount of donation they wish to give and its disbursement channel.
-  Money donation boxes and sales representatives: There are 20 sites in Abu Dhabi and 35 in other Emirates where donors can make their donations. There are also 184 sales representatives to promote various Waqf coupons and 550 large money boxes and 5000 small ones all over the Emirates.





Department

Awqaf Investment



Service



Donation and Waqf Service




Service Status

Active



Type of Service


Action needed




Target audience


All members of the community




Service Accessibility







 
This services is accessible through the GAIAE's website Donation and Waqf Service. The donor need to fill out and send the relevant form. An employee in charge will contact donors shortly or donate directly through the edonation




Sending SMS to the numbers mentioned above




Waqf coupons




Money donation boxes and sales representatives available in malls, shopping centres, hospitals and different government facilities 




  




 Processing time







If the donation is made online through the website, the services will not be delivered immediately. Donors needs first to register on the website and choose the type of donation or Waqf. An employee in charge willcontact them shortly




The donation is immediately executed and delivered if it is made via SMS directly by buying coupons and putting money in donation boxes









Office Hours

24/7



For Inquiries



Phone
0097126143716 - 8002421 


Fax
009716217001 


E-mail

waqf@awqaf.gov.ae



P.O.Box
2272 



Social Media


Facebook,  Twitter and YouTube




Discussion forums


 
To enquire about the GAIAE's services,  Public Opinion on GAIAE and GAIAE e- Services




Required Documents


The following documents are required to make a Waqf




Copy of valid passport




A writ  expressing your wish to establish a Waqf issued by the court




Legal property title




Master plan








Terms and Conditions

None



Fees

None



Service Location

GAIAE main office in Abu Dhabi



Number of users

E-Donation 16 users

















