addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Verily, all praise belongs to Allah Who created this bountiful earth for our sustenance and refuge. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah. I also bear witness that Muhammad is His slave and messenger. May Allah send peace and blessings upon him, his family, his companions and their followers until the Day of Judgment.
Oh Muslims! I urge you and myself to be ever God-conscious and to construct your lives in the shadow of divine obedience. Exalted Allah says in the Holy Quran "and whoever fears Allah and keeps his duty to Him. He will make his matter easy for him."(65:4).
We observe and remember one of the greatest landmarks in the history of Islam; the migration of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) from Makkah to Medina (Al Hijrah). This milestone marks the beginning of the Islamic year. It also offers spiritual value that deserves in-depth analysis and reflection on its important meaning and teachings.
The unbelievers in Mecca were bitterly set against Prophet Muhammad (pbuh). When they realized that they failed to stop the message of Islam, they came up with a devilish plan to kill him. Allah All-Mighty, however, can never be overpowered. He later said to His Prophet "They were plotting and Allah was planning, and Allah is the Best of the planners (8:30). Under divine instruction, Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) decided to migrate to Medina. Meanwhile, he made Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, sleep in his bed to deceive the enemies. Prophet Muhammad was so trustworthy that he had a number of things committed to his care. He (pbuh) charged Ali to return them to their owners before leaving Mecca.
Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) made a comprehensive plan and was committed to its precise execution while relying on the guidance of All-Mighty Allah. He confided his plan to Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him,  who was the Prophet's companion in his migration which indicates the most dignified status of Abu Bakr whom All-Mighty Allah mentions in the Holy Quran "If you don't help him (Muhammad pbuh) not (it does not matter)  for Allah did indeed help him when the disbelievers drove him out, the second of the two; when they (Muhammad pbuh and Abu Bakr may Allab be pleased with him) were in the cave, he (pbuh) said to his companion (Abu Bakr) "Be not sad (or afraid) surely Allah is with us."(9:40).
The Prophet (pbuh) and Abu Bakr proceeded to the cave of Mount Thawr in the vicinity of Mecca to take shelter. Abu Bakr instructed his son Abdullah to find out the hostile plans of Quraish,  then relay them to him. Asma, Abu Bakr's daughter was bringing them food at night.
Quraish arrived in the cave, but their plan to kill Prophet Muhammad with the help of All-Mighty Allah utterly failed. Meanwhile, Abu Bakr whispered to the Prophet (pbuh) what if they were to look through the crevice and detect us? The Prophet (pbuh) replied "What do you think of those two with whom the third is Allah?".
When Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) left the cave, he stood near Mecca longing and bidding farewell to his beloved city "I am aware that you are the best land of Allah. Had your people not forced me to leave I would have never left you." Such Hadith reinforces the importance of love and devotion's to one's country. Our homeland is our place of birth where we grow up, perform our rituals and enjoy prosperity. Allah All-Mighty ordained us to sacrifice oneself and offer whatever it takes to defend it.
Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) later met Abdullah bin Areeqat who made him his guide. Abdullah was a non-Muslim, nevertheless he was very devoted to his job. Despite the big reward offered by Quraysh to anyone who brought the Prophet (pbuh) dead or alive, Abdullah never thought about betraying the Prophet (pbuh). This act demonstrates the need to cooperate with people from all walks of life and of different religions as long as it serves one's religion and helps developing one's nation and people.
Drawing on Prophet Muhammad's experience, we notice, dear Muslims, that he first put his faith in Allah. He did not, however, wait for All-Mighty Allah to rescue him. He planned well considering all aspects of the situation. Unfortunately, Quraish did not despair. One of them, Suraqa ibn Malek tracked them down. Abu Bakr (mpuh) said : we travelled and Quraish was after us, only one man, Suraqa bin Malek was able to find us." Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said to Abu Bakr "Do not grieve. God is with us". Suraqa stumbled on his horse, and asked the Prophet (pbuh) to write him a warrant of security. Afterwards, Suraqa became the protector of both the Prophet and Abu Bakr.
The Prophet (pbuh) and Abu Bakr entered Madina amidst cheerful welcome from its citizens. "The day Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) entered Madina his shining light was everywhere."
Exalted Allah praises the Ansars for their love and devotion to the emigrants "And it is also for those who, before them, had homes (in Madina) and had adopted the Faith, love those who emigrate to them, and have no jealousy for that which they have been given, and given them (emigrants) preference over themselves even though they were in need of that (59:9).
We pray to Allah All-Mighty to have faith and reliance on Him, and to bestow on us patience, perseverance and divine obedience as He says "O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those of you who are in authority."(4:59).













