addthis_pub="newawqaf";















The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments on Tuesday, the 7th of December, 2010 (1st of Muharram, 1432H) commemorated Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) Hihraj (migration from Mecca to Media). The celebration which was held at the Grand Zayed Mosque was attended by H.E.Dr.Hamdan AlMazrouei, GAIAE Chairman, H.E. Dr.Mohammed AlKaabi, GAIAE Director General, several GAIAE officials and a large number of people.
In his speech, Dr.Alkaabi greeted GAIAE Chairman and all officials and Muslim scholars attending the ceremony. He invoked All-Mighty Allah to bestow his blessings upon H.H.Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, H.H. The Vice President, Their Highnesses the Rulers of the Emirates and H.H.The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, the UAE and the world. He also expressed his hope that all Muslims would comply with Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) saying "A true Muslim is a person whom other Muslims are safe from the mischief of his tongue and the mischief of his hand. A true migrant is a person who migrates away from doing evil".
 Dr.AlKaabi added that the UAE is celebrating three highly regarded historical events; the 39th National Day, may Allah rest the UAE founders in peace, and protect our prudent leadership. He added that "as we celebrate Al Hijrah, a landmark in history, Abu Dhabi is hosting the 31st meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council which, with the help of Exalted Allah, will bring about more prosperity, advancement and fruitful cooperation in the region".
Referring to Al Hijrah, Dr.Alkaabi said that Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) migrated from Mecca to Madina under divine instruction. Metaphorically, there is also the migration of the heart i.e. leaving behind all wrongdoings to achieve the highest ethical standards.
Dr.Alkaabi added that one of the ethical aspects that shaped the life of Prophet  Muhammad (pbuh) was his love and devotion to his homeland. Bidding farewell to Mecca, his place of birth, he said "By Allah, I Know that you are the most beloved land to Allah. By Allah, I would have not left you had your people not caused me to leave." Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) also set the guideline and directives for new emigrants everywhere, namely to help build the new homeland, transcend all differences, integrate in the new society and respect their norms and habits. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) accepted to live in Medina where he was reciting the Quranic verse "O my Lord! Let my entry be the Gate of truth and Honor, and likewise my exit by the Gate of Truth and Honor, and grant me from your Presence an authority to aid (me). Through his teachings about harmony and peace, Medina became a safe and prosperous city.
 Later, Muslims spread all over the world. Many countries embraced Islam due to the good conduct and ethics of Muslim merchants. We are hopeful that ethical behavior would shape the lives of Muslims everywhere so as to reflect the essence of Islam which is based on tolerance, cooperation and giving. Humanity is in need for these attributes now more than ever.
Dr.AlKaabi asserted the need to draw lessons in faith, obedience, wisdom  and reliance on Exalted Allah from Al Hijrah. He reinterated that "we are required to migrate more toward Allah, to enhance our morals and ethical principles".
Finally, Dr.Alkaaba invoked Allah All-Mighty to bestow upon the UAE and the world peaceful co-existence and fruitful and fair cooperation.
H.E.Dr.Farouq Hammada, Counselor at the court (diwan) of H.H. The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi said in his speech that Al Hijrah is one of the rare events that shaped the world history. He added that Al Hijrah is still open to discussion to draw valuable lessons in ethics and morals. He noted that the ethical behavior that shaped Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) life did not change even during the worst situation when Suraqa found him and was eager to get him (pbuh) dead or alive. The prophet (pbuh) did not harm him, even though he was able to kill him. the essence of Hijrah, according to Dr.Hammada,  is the Prophet's intention to spread the teachings of Islam elsewhere due to the hardships he encountered in Mecca. One of the most noble deeds of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) was his ability to unify the city and spread care and love between the emigrants and the ansars (residents). Moreover, the messages he sent to several kings are evidence of his keen interest in peaceful co-existence, his wisdom and his eagerness to guide the world to the straight path. Finally, Dr.Hammada added that Islam is the religion of common sense (fitra) and good human ethics; any country which embraces Islam will be devoted to it and will adhere to its principles.













