addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praise belongs to Allah and all gratitude for His bountiful blessings. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah. I also bear witness that Prophet Muhammad, who was of sublime morality and clear straight path, is His servant and messenger. May Allah send peace upon him, his family, his companions and all those who follow them till the Day of Judgment.
"O you who believe! Fear God as He should be feared, and die not except in a state of Islam"(Al-Imran:102)."O you who believe! Keep your duty to Allah and fear Him, and speak always the truth. He will direct you to righteous good deeds and will forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger (pbuh), he has indeed made a great achievement". (Al-Ahzab:70-71).
Dear Muslims,
Good ethics are of foremost importance and value in Islam as exemplified in the truthful and most eloquent saying of Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) "I was sent to perfect good manners.". Further, when asked about his character, Aisha, the wife of the Prophet (pbuh) said "His character was that of the Quran". Ali bin Abi Taleb, may Allah be pleased with him, was asked to describe the attributes of the Prophet (pbuh), he said "He was the most generous, the most clement, the most sincere, the most lenient and the most amiable to people". Most importantly, Allah All-Mighty bestowed His praise upon the Prophet (pbuh) "And verily, you, O Muhammad are on an exalted standard of character".(Al-Qalam:4)
The ethical system in Islam derives from a divine source, and morality is one of the most important components of as well as a manifestation of true faith. It is also rewarded by Allah's mercy and forgiveness and is the key to paradise. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said "The most perfect believer in respect to faith is he who is best in manners. He (pbuh) also said "By his good character, a believer will attain the degree of one who fasts during the day and prays during the night".
A true believer in Exalted Allah and one who has firm faith in the Day of Judgment has the opportunity to prepare for this great test by striving to become more righteous, freeing oneself from all evils and achieving higher ethics.
Dear Believers,
One of the most important Islamic ethics is to treat people well and to avoid hurting them. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) considered the following two traits imbued with Islam "The best Muslim is the one from whose hands and tongue other Muslims are safe."Further, Ammar bin Yassir, may Allah be pleased with him, said: Faith stands on three:" be fair, spread peace and give charity".
Peace refers to abstinence from lying, hurting, betraying or assaulting people and so forth.
Muslims must strive to become of higher ethics and to dedicate one's time and energy to performing good deeds, giving money and being helpful to people. Ibn Qattada, may Allah be pleased with him, said "Feeding the hungry is better than performing one hajj after another".
O Allah guide us to the best of ethics for no one can guide us but You and free us from ill deeds for no one can free us but You. O Allah guide us to obey You and those whom You ordained us to obey "O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Muhammad pbuh) and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority (an-Nisa':59).
 
 













