addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praise is due to Allah. I testify that there is no deity except Allah, the one true God Who has no partner. I also testify that our master and beloved Muhammad is Allah's servant and messenger. May Allah send peace and blessings upon Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and whoever follows their guidance till The Last Day.
Oh servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to fear Allah, The Exalted, Who says "And whoever fears Allah, He will make a way out for him to get out (from any difficulties). And He will provide him from (sources) he never could imagine." (65:2-3).
Dear Fellow Muslims,
Allah the Almighty has commanded us to do good deeds. It is a means for salvation and acceptance by Allah, the Exalted, in the Hereafter. Allah says "and do good that you may be successful."(22:77).
One of these good deeds is helping people, fulfilling their needs, and instilling happiness in their hearts. Offering needy people a hand shows your sincere concern about their plight. Further, sharing with them happiness and distress helps alleviate their pain and suffering. 
The Holy Quran and the Hadith have many texts that exhort Muslims to seize the moment to do good deeds, and promise the benefactor great reward in this world and in the Hereafter "and whatever good you send forth for your souls before you, you shall find it with Allah: for Allah sees well all that you do."(2:110). Allah Exalted says "On the Day when every soul will be confronted with all the good it has done."(3:30).
Further, Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) gave to those who strive to help others glad tidings of great reward in this life and the hereafter. He said "Whoever removes an anxiety of the world from a believer, Allah will remove an anxiety of the Day of Resurrection from him. Whoever makes it easy for someone in difficulty, Allah will make it easy for him in the world and the Hereafter. Allah will be of assistance to the slave as long as the slave is of assistance to his brother." (narrated by Abu Hurairah). In the hadith there is a clear indication that doing good deeds will result in one of the greatest rewards; it is the promise through the informing of the Exalted one that whoever removes a Muslim's distress will have a good seal on his life's actions. Allah Almighty will make life easy for the benefactor and will help him in this life and the Hereafter.
The lives of the Prophets were abundant with noble examples. Allah Exalted tells the story of Moses (pbuh) with the two daughters of Shu'aib "And when he arrived at the water (a well) of Madyan, he found there a group of men watering (their flocks), and besides them he found two women who were keeping back (their flocks). He said: "What is the matter with you?" They said "We cannot water (our flocks) until the shepherds take (their flocks). And our father is a very old man." So he watered (their flocks) for them, then he turned back to shade, and said:" My Lord! Truly, I am in need of whatever good You bestow on me!"(28:23-24).
One of the most notable role models was Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) and his companions. Describing the attributes of the Prophet (pbuh) his wife, Khadija (may Allah be pleased with her) said "You maintain good ties with your kinship, you are always truthful when you speak, you take care of  the destitute, you are always generous with your guests and you help people when they face problems." Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) was helpful to all people; old or young, male or female.
His companions, may Allah be pleased with them, enjoyed the same qualities" Umar bin Al-Khattab used to attend to the needs of a blind old lady in Madina at night. He saw a man entering her house many times before him. He waited for him to find out that he was Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him. Omar said "So it was you!"
The history of Islam is abundant with wonderful examples of mercy and care for the needy. We are in urgent need for these great attributes to spread around the world!
May Allah help us maintain our obedience to Him and to those whom He commanded us to obey, as Allah says "O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Muhammad pbuh) and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority."(4:59).
May Allah help us benefit from the Holy Quran and The Hadith of the Prophet (pbuh). 













