addthis_pub="newawqaf";















Review of GAIAE accomplishments and its projects underway in 2010 was the headline of the 11th and final workshop for the year 2010. These achievements were a culmination of efforts to implement GAIAE strategic plan approved by the cabinet and the decisions made by GAIAE board of directors. The workshop, which was conducted at GAIAE Baniyyas office, was attended by GAIAE executive directors, departments' directors as well as directors of GAIAE offices in the UAE.
At the opening speech, Dr.Mohamed Mattar AlKaabi, GAIAE Director General, extended his most sincere appreciation for the support of H.H. UAE President, may Allah protect him, his Deputy, Rulers of the Emirates and H.H. the Crown Prince. Without this support, he added, it would not have been possible for GAIAE to develop itself and accomplish its mission. Yet, ambition and excellence require ongoing progress, analysis and follow up by the departments' directors. Team work is also essential to enhance management skills and staff performance. Moreover, effective 2011, directors are required to submit to GAIAE Chairman monthly reports on the complaints and suggestions received via GAIAE website or other sources.
UAE Mosques Managed by GAIAE
An agreement was made to conduct performance evaluation of Abu Dhabi mosques' cleaning companies every six months. Further, the attendees agreed to prepare an urgent study in regard to entrusting the maintenance and cleaning of Northern Emirates' mosques to a private cleaning company.
Moreover, directors of GAIAE offices have been requested to survey all mosques that are in need of demolition and reconstruction, in addition to mosques requiring maintenance in the year 2011. Surveys must also be conducted on all lands attached to mosques as well as awqaf lands. A recommendation was also made to urge construction companies to accelerate their work and complete their projects before the deadlines.
Further, 15 million dirhams were allocated in 2010 to furnish mosques. GAIAE intends to renew the interior of some of the most visited mosques in downtown Abu Dhabi.
Staff Performance and Activities
Attendees agreed to form sports teams. GAIAE directors, imams and muezzins are welcome to join these teams to improve their fitness, bring them together and increase competition between GAIAE offices in the UAE.
On the other hand, GAIAE staff will earn their promotions prior to the end of 2010. It is to be noted that job satisfaction was one of the recommendations in the strategic plan which GAIAE is eager to implement with accuracy and transparency.
In regard to health insurance for imams and muezzins in the Northern Emirates, attendees studied the expenses and the possibilities of acquiring it.
Preaching and Religious Education
In 2011, Quran Memorizations' Centers will undergo a big improvement; new model centers will be inaugurated (initially, one in each emirate). Further, GAIAE will choose the most qualified Quran teachers for these centers.
GAIAE Publications
Print an updated edition of "The Mosques' lessons" with new topics dealing with the needs of an ever-evolving life.
GAIAE religious and cultural magazine, Manar Al-Islam, is celebrating its 40th anniversary. It was recommended to modernize this magazine which targets people from all walks of life. A decision was also made to launch a new quarterly magazine for highly educated and specialized readers.
Mosques' electronic screens, The Official Ifa' Center and GAIAE website will serve as outlets for preaching and religious education.
 













