addthis_pub="newawqaf";















All praise to Allah Who made mosques oasis of peace and tranquility. I testify that there is no god but Allah, the one true God Who has no partner. I also testify that our Master Muhammad is Allah's servant and messenger. May Allah send peace and blessings upon Prophet Muhammad, his family, his companions and whoever follows their guidance till the Last Day.
O Servants of Allah,
I urge you and myself to fear Allah Almighty who says "So fear Allah, O you who understand in order that you may be successful." (5:100).
O Muslims,
Mosques are the houses of Allah on earth, and whoever prays in the mosque is visiting Allah Almighty. Indeed, Allah shall reward those who visit Him. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said "Allah shall call on the Day of Judgment: Where are My neighbors? Where are My neighbors? The angels say: O Allah who must be Your neighbors? Allah says "Where are the builders of mosques?."
From the mosques the beams of the light of guidance and values emanate. Mosques are also centers of culture and religious education that refine Muslims' souls and awaken their minds and hearts. They also foster bonds of unity, mercy and cooperation between Muslims. When the Holy Prophet (pbuh) migrated to Medina, the first action he took was to build a mosque. Allah, Exalted be He, says "Verily, the mosque whose foundation was laid from the first day on piety is more worthy that you stand therein to pray in it are men who love to  be purified, and Allah loves those who make themselves pure."(9:108)
Following in the footsteps of the Holy Prophet (pbuh) and   companions, may Allah be pleased with them, Muslims built and cared for mosques throughout Islamic history. It is no wonder that each and every capital of Islamic civilization had embellished mosques that remain as symbols of the glorious history.
Looking back at our prestigious past, we are in urgent need to contribute in building homes for Exalted Allah and to perform our duties by caring for it. 
Dear Muslims,
Money has been entrusted to us by Allah Almighty. The best investment is the one that you make in obedience of Allah. Allah Exalted says:"And whatever you spend in good, it is for yourselves, when you spend not except seeking Allah's Countenance. And whatever you spend in good, it will be repaid to you in full, and you shall not be wronged."(2:272).
In interpreting the Hadith, the sand grouse is a very well known bird. It has different species and lives in many regions of the world. The nest is no more than depressions in the ground, it is a very small hole which is no bigger than the palm of a hand. Muslim scholars said:"The Hadith refers to contribution in building houses of Allah even with a small amount, and therefore encourages groups of people to share in the building of mosques even if the contribution of each one does not exceed the size of a sand grouse nest."
O Servants of Allah,
The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments calls on all of you to participate in the Building Mosques Week Campaign through the Sand Grouse Nest Program. If a Muslim gives two hundred dirhams only, he will be greatly rewarded by Allah. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said "Whoever builds a mosque for Allah in the size of a sand grouse nest, Allah will build a house for him in paradise."
The United Arab Emirates is renowned for its magnificent mosques spreading across its cities, regions and neighborhoods. With the grace of Exalted Allah then the efforts of UAE prudent leadership, mosques are landmarks of civilization in its design, maintenance, equipment and cleanliness. Allah says: "The mosques of Allah shall be maintained only by those who believe in Allah and the Last Day; perform prayer, and given Zakat (obligatory charity) and fear none but Allah. It is they who are on true guidance." (9:18).
The General Authority for Islamic Affairs and Endowments commends the public's positive response to last year's campaign; in each Emirate, tens of mosques have been erected by the donors themselves in addition to other mosques in the process of construction by the Authority. May Allah help us maintain our obedience to Him and to those whom He commanded us to obey:
"O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Prophet Muhammad pbuh) and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority." (4:59).
May Allah make us of the people of the Quran and those who follow the Sunnah of the Prophet (pbuh).
 













