addthis_pub="newawqaf";















GAIAE - Ajman Office - and Ajman Municipality and Planning Department have signed a cooperation agreement aiming at exchanging experience and knowledge in various areas including training and habilitation, service excellence and collaboration in serving the people of Ajman.  Representing Ajman Department was H.E.Ali bin Abdullah Al-Hamrani, director general, and representing GAIAE was Mr.Obeid Mohamamd Al Zouabi, director of GAIAE Ajman office. The signing ceremony was attended by Mr.Faisal Obaid bu Afra', department's director of public affairs,  Mr. Abdullah Rashed AlSuwaidi, department's director of mosques  section  and Mr.Hassan Rashed AlMarzouqi, department's director of inspection section.
Per this agreement, both parties will coordinate their efforts in improving the services offered to the public, enhance and promote their roles in humanitarian and social work, exchange experience, knowledge and research that help accelerate the ongoing development. This endeavor requires policies that enforce the establishment of this mutual cooperation, exchange publications and reports relating to the services offered in addition to holding meeting between official of both parties.
 
Commenting on the agreement, H.E. Mr.Al-Hamrani stated that it is in harmony with the department's plan to strengthen its ties with all parties concerned with municipality work in addition to offering the best services to the people of Ajman. He added that under the directives of H.E.Sheikh Rashid bin Humaid Al Nuaimi, chairman, Ajman Municipality and Planning Department, the municipality will strive to put all its capabilities to work to meet the needs of the people of Ajman.
 
H.E. Mr.Al-Hamrani also stated that the Municipality is willing to donate lands for mosques construction. He also alluded to the fact that all charitable work will be exempted from the fees.
 
Mr.Obeid Hamad AlZu'abi commended the care extended by Ajman Municipality to Ajman mosques including but not limited to providing all infrastructure needs, cleanliness, and embelishing its surroundings with plants and trees. He emphasized the importance of the cooperation agreement in enhancing charitable work. He also lauded the role and follow up of H.E.Sheikh Rashed Al-Nuaimi, chairman, Ajman Municipality and Planning Department, who is keen to care for mosques and extended his appreciation to him for exempting all charitable work from fees.
 













