addthis_pub="newawqaf";















In a press conference at its premises in Abu Dhabi, GAIAE announced the launch of its second" Mosques Building Week Campaign". Present during the conference were Mr.Mohamed Obeid AlMazrouei, GAIAE executive director for Islamic affairs, Mr.Khaled Al-Neyadi, executive director for waqf affairs, several GAIAE officials in addition to media representatives.
Mr.AlMazrouei stated that the donations collected in last year's campaign amounted to 33 million dirhams. 76 mosques were constructed through these contributions.
He lauded the continuous care and support of H.H. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, UAE President, may Allah bless him,  H.H. Sheikh Mohamad bin Rashed Al Maktoum, UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai,Their Highnesses Members of the Federal Supreme Council, Rules of the Emirates and H.H. General Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces.
Mr. AlMazrouei added that by the grace and blessing of Allah, Exalted be He, and the contributions of UAE businessmen and philantropics UAE mosques have become landmarks of our civilization.
He added that the rapid and vibrant construction industry in the UAE requires that GAIAE coordinate with the relevant parties to provide similar care for mosques in each and every city and neighborhood.
He also alluded to the fact that the campaign which will go on a whole week will give society, institutions and national companies the chance to participate. It is also a good opportunity to reveal the positive outcome of last year's campaign.
According to Mr.Khaled Neyadi, GAIAE executive director for waqf affairs, in addition to the 76 mosques constructed last year, there are 9 pieces of land for construction of 9 mosques with a total capacity of 750 to 2000 worshippers. These mosques will be built in Lewa in the Western Region and will cost 13 million dirhams. There are also 188 mosques under construction. All tenders will be made available in January, 2011. Mr.Neyadi added that building mosques through last year's campaign contributions was very carefully done. It took into consideration mosques sustainability, surrounding greenery, population, natural light in addition to mosque embellishment.  
 













